Dar es Salaam. Fashion Stylist is one of the most popular emerging professions in the fashion world globally. They select the clothing and accessories for music videos, concert performances, and any public appearances made by celebrities, models or other public figures. Over the weekend Swalha Msabaha was at hand to show just how much styling is important in world where image has become so important. Held at the swanky Serena Hotel Gardens, she was joined by some of the top women in the city including former beauty queens Nancy Sumari and Faraja Kota. They had come to hear and interact with one the best in a field that is so crucial in image issues. On this evening she cut a poise and look that said it all and as many who spoke to the Beat said, it was a statement of intent in many ways. There were vendors too who showcased things like Sia Couture, The Rub Spa and Retrome-Make Up, Enjipai Jewelry and the Abaya collection by Anisa Tanzania who is probably one of Tanzania’s most celebrated designers based in South Africa. But this all seems to be happening so fast, because those who at her previous events were left in awe. Two years ago not many knew about Swalha Msabaha as a fashion stylist because just like in other parts of Africa it is an emerging trend and she is proving that she is the go to stylist in Tanzania who is destined for bigger things. “Many of our celebrities can afford good clothing and that is where I come in I take a look at what they have and try to match up with their bodies and the event at hand,” says Swalha. According to her, fashion stylists are often part of a larger creative team assembled by the client, collaborating with the fashion designer, hair stylist and makeup artist to put together a particular look or theme for the specific project. “As a stylist I sometimes collaborate directly with designers to produce custom clothing for celebrity clients to suit a certain purpose or theme of the event that they are attending,” says Swalha. The list of some of the celebrities that she has styled in the past include musicians such as Lady Jaydee, Barnaba Classic, Shaa and even Rita Paulsen aka Madam Rita on her Rita Paulsen Show which airs on Azam TV. The strides that she has made have put her in good company and she is already attracting corporate sponsorship with Etihad and Barclays Bank lending her shoulder. The event’s main organizer and major sponsor Abstrat had put together something unique to celebrate this emerging trend. “Our main aim was to come up with a beauty and fashion event that was totally different, an event that would be memorable and we managed to achieve this,” Abstrat’s Abdallah Singano told the Beat. But apart from the famous names Swalha also has several other individual clients whom she attends to. “I have some people that style but those I will not name them right now,” she told the Beat on the sidelines of the event. To Swalha styling is something that she had always had passion since her teenage years. “I have always had passion for fashion and a keen eye for detail, as well as up to date with the latest fashion trends and colour schemes,” she says. On this day Swalha was not alone, in her company was another celebrity stylist Veronica Odeka who had flown all the way from Lagos. She took those in attendance on some of the issues that they need to give priority when creating a wardrobe even without spending so much money. The international stylist, born and raised in Houston Texas, US has a portfolio that spans over10 years in high fashion print, commercial and runway modeling. Through her outfit ‘Vane-Style’ she has become one of Nigeria’s most celebrated stylists and go-to person for the creation of signature style, personal shopping, wardrobe consultations, makeovers, personal and luxury shopping, styling for fashion shows, wardrobe detox and rebuilding, wedding style consultations, designer brand consultation as well as corporate etiquette and grooming seminars. Veronica boasts of a clientele list envious to many, she’s worked with socialites and celebrities in Nigeria including Artistes Tiwa Savage, Davido and Waje,TV Presenters Adora Oleh and Dolapo Oni, OAP Toolz and Model Manager Elohor Aisien. The list doesn’t stop there as she has also styled well-known international celebrities such as American Glamour Model and Actress, Carmen Electra, award winning Singer Alicia Keys and former member of Destiny’s Child, Farrah Franklin. She also worked on big projects including Nigerian Idols seasons 1 and 2, Project Fame, Elite Model look Nigeria 2011 and 2012, Martini Male Model Search 2011, GTBank Commercials, MTN Lagos Fashion & Design Week 2011 and Arise Magazine Fashion Week 2011 and 2012.