
				                 Love and marriage are special, so the man you marry should be, too.
You know you’ve found someone special when you’ve found the kind of man who has some, all or most of the qualities on this list:
1. He makes you feel relaxed
You don’t have to be ‘on’ around him. You’re able to just be yourself. You’re comfortable crying in front of him, yelling in front him and having quiet moments. He’s seen the good, the bad, the hung-over … and he still loves you.
2. He makes you happy
He makes you smile more than you frown. When you’re with him, you’re really, really happy. He treats you like a queen and does everything he can to make you happy.
3. You’re attracted to him
You find yourself beyond attracted to him. Sometimes you look at him and you think: “He may not be everyone’s cup of tea, but to me, he’s gorgeous”.
4. He’s loyal
Your future husband should be loyal and 400% committed to you. He should have eyes only for you. You never have to worry about him being unfaithful, because he’s all yours.
5. He’s a good listener
The man you marry should listen to you, and I mean really listen. He should pay attention to what you say. He lets you vent, regardless of the subject. A man who truly loves you cares about what you have to say.
6. He’s thoughtful and romantic
A man who is thoughtful is a keeper. He should show you he’s considerate by doing things just to put a smile on your face. He knows it’s the little things that count, and does anything he can to make you feel special.
7. He’s sweet
He’s kind and loving because he cares about you and your feelings. He’s affectionate because he can’t help himself. He’s sweet to you in private, and of course, in public, too. He can’t wait to kiss you each and every morning and night.
8. He appreciates you
He tells you out of the blue that you look beautiful. He raves to his friends about you because he knows you’re special. He knows he’s lucky to have you in his life, and he never lets you forget it.
9. He fits into your life
He spends time with your family and you feel comfortable with his. He makes an effort to be present in your life and engage the people you love. He cares about your friends and wants them to like him. He fits into your life perfectly.
10. He’s willing to do anything for you
He makes sacrifices for you because he knows it will make you happy. He plans things he knows you will enjoy. He’s willing to do anything for you, because he loves you.
Brought to you by All4Women
5 signs your relationship will last

For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  