
				                 The resignation of embattled Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe on Tuesday, is not the silver bullet that will fix the country but the first step towards a new beginning, the leader of South African opposition party, the Democratic Alliance (DA) said.
“This is a victory for the people of Zimbabwe who have suffered greatly under the latter years of Mugabe’s reign. The story of Robert Mugabe is not a unique one, and is all too familiar on our continent,” DA leader Mmusi Maimane said.
Read more: Mugabe: Liberation hero turned hated despot
“A once liberator of his people, Mugabe brought division, instability, and economic ruin to Zimbabwe as he made the unfortunate transition from liberator to dictator. While Mugabe’s resignation is the first step towards a new beginning for Zimbabwe, it is not the silver bullet that will fix the country. Mugabe may be gone, but the ruling Zanu-PF remains.”
Zimbabwean Speaker of Parliament Jacob Mudenda announced Mugabe’s resignation when the two Houses of Parliament — Upper and Lower — were seated at the Harare International Conference Centre in the capital, moving a motion to impeach Mugabe.
He said he had received a letter from the President, bringing the impeachment process to halt.
The 93-year-old Mugabe has been president of Zimbabwe for 37 years, since the country attained independence from colonial rule in 1980.
In his statement on Tuesday, Maimane said that as was the case with “liberation movements” accross Africa, Zanu-PF has become a “patronage network engulfed in fighting” over access to power and state resources for those who are politically connected.
He said that it was clear from the tense situation over the past few days, that this “was not a voluntary relinquishing of power by Mugabe, but a forced one”.
“Zanu-PF is complicit in each and every ill committed by the Mugabe regime, and as such cannot be trusted to bring a new beginning to Zimbabwe. History has taught us that failed liberation movements cannot and will not self-correct. The solution has to come from outside these movements,” Maimane said.
“Therefore we maintain that a fresh mandate is required from the electorate, and the people of Zimbabwe must be given the opportunity to go to the polls and elect a new President. The only way forward for Zimbabwe is for fresh elections to be held immediately.”
Maimane said as chairperson of the Southern African Partnership for Democratic Change (SAPDC), he has engaged with the opposition in Zimbabwe on a number of occasions, and it was clear that the “only way forward is for free and fair elections to be held as soon as possible”.
He called on the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to take the lead in ensuring an interim government is put in place, and that elections are held as soon as possible.
“Today the will of the Zimbabwean people has prevailed as Robert Mugabe is no longer President of their country. It is now time for the Zimbabwean people to decide who ought to replace him as President, and for an election to be held at once.”
On November 14, the Zimbabwean military took charge of the country when tanks rolled into the capital. Early Wednesday morning, the army seized control of state television ZBC and said it was acting against “criminals” surrounding Mugabe, but they insisted their actions were not a coup.
Mugabe: Liberation hero turned hated despot




For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.





                         	                   


For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.



 
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
