
				                 Audi Sport presents the most powerful TT of all time, featuring a muscular body, newly developed five-cylinder engine and accompanied by its unmistakable sound.
.
The new Matrix OLED rear lights also underscore the compact sports car’s position as a technology leader in the segment.
Impressive performance: the new five-cylinder engine
A jury of international motor journalists has voted the 2.5 TFSI “Engine of the Year” seven times in a row.
Now Audi has upped the ante and has further developed the five-cylinder engine in all areas – with lightweight aluminium construction measures, reduced internal friction and increased power delivery.
As a result, the turbo engine gains a good 17 percent increase in performance at an unchanged capacity of 2,480 cc.
At 294 kW, it is more powerful than ever before. The engine’s maximum torque of 480 Nm is available between 1,700 and 5,850 rpm.
.
The TT RS Coupé accelerates from 0 to 100 km/h in 3.7 seconds – this corresponds to the level of a supercar. Audi can govern the top speed to 250 km/h or will raise the top speed to 280 km/h upon request.
Despite increased performance, the fuel consumption of the TT RS Coupé is just 8.2 litres per 100 kilometres. At less than 50 centimetres in length, the 2.5 TFSI engine is extremely compact and is 26 kg lighter than the previous model.
For the best traction and plenty of driving pleasure: the quattro drive
The power of the 2.5 TFSI engine flows via a seven-speed S tronic, which shifts at lightning speed, to the quattro permanent all-wheel drive.
Its multi-plate clutch distributes power fully variably between the two axles. This ensures strong grip and plenty of driving pleasure. Wheel-selective torque control makes handling even more agile and safe.
The driver can use the Audi drive select system to influence the quattro drive and other components such as the steering, S tronic, engine characteristic and exhaust flaps.
The four modes available for this are comfort, auto, dynamic and individual.
.
Pure dynamics: the chassis
In addition to its light weight, the Audi TT RS has its sporty chassis to thank for its outstanding handling.
The progressive steering with RS-specific tuning provides close contact with the road and makes it a pleasure to drive challenging winding stretches.
At the front axle, ventilated and perforated steel discs are in action behind the standard 19-inch wheels – or 20-inch forged lightweight wheels as an option.
Alternatively, lighter and particularly abrasion-resistant carbon-fibre ceramic discs are available at an additional cost. At the back, a steel monoblock disc is used. As an option, Audi supplies the RS sport suspension plus with adaptive dampers in magnetic ride technology.
In this case, the damping characteristic can be influenced electronically. The control technology is integrated into the Audi drive select dynamic handling system.
New feature: Matrix OLED lights
.
For the first time in a series-production Audi, Matrix OLED technology (organic light emitting diode) is used in the rear lights as an option. These emit an extremely homogeneous, precise light. The light does not cast any harsh shadows and does not require any reflectors – this makes the OLEDs in 3D design efficient, lightweight and visually impressive. Each rear light contains four wafer-thin units that become smaller from the inside out. The biggest bears the TT logo and the four Audi rings. The TT RS has LED rear lights with dynamic indicators and LED headlights as standard. Alternatively, the latter are available as intelligently controlled Matrix LED units.
Athletically streamlined: the exterior design
Large air inlets, a Singleframe grille with a newly designed honeycomb pattern and quattro logo, and two large, oval exhaust tailpipes – the new TT RS Coupé exudes concentrated power. Along the flanks, aerodynamically-shaped side sills emphasize the sporty design. The new model measures 4.19 metres in length, 1.83 metres in width and 1.34 metres in height. The TTRS is available with either a fixed rear wing or a retractable rear spoiler. Dependant on customer preference, both are offered at no additional cost.
Inspired by racing cars: the cockpit
The cockpit with its slim instrument panel has clean lines and is clearly laid out. Controls and display in the new TT RS are focused completely on the driver. Particularly striking are the round air vents, which occupy a central position in the instrument panel and house the controls for the standard deluxe automatic air conditioning. All information is displayed as standard on the fully digital Audi virtual cockpit with 12.3-inch screen. The driver can choose from three views, including a special RS screen that highlights the tachometer and provides information on tyre pressure, torque and g-force, among other things. The tachometer also serves as a shift indicator.
For the first time in the RS portfolio, the RS sport leather steering wheel with shift paddles has two satellite controls for turning the engine on and off as well as the Audi drive select dynamic handling system, in addition to multifunction buttons. The driver can influence the exhaust flap control and thus the engine sound via the sound button on the center console. In summary, drivers can control all important functions without having to take their hands off the steering wheel – just like in a race car.
The RS-specific seat upholstery in V-perforated Fine Nappa leather, also in diamond pattern, is even more stylish and standard on the new model. It is available in three colour combinations: Black/grey, black/red or Murillo brown. The optional RS design package in red sets colour accents in the interior, including on the air vents, seat belts and floor mats with the RS logo. This includes a leather package that additionally upgrades elements of the interior in order to complete the premium cockpit.
The new Audi TT RS is a sports car with a high level of everyday usability. The luggage compartment offers a basic capacity of 305 litres which can be increased to 712 litres by folding down the rear seat backs.
Best entertainment: Infotainment
Audi also offers a range of high-end infotainment technology. The options include MMI navigation plus with MMI touch including free text search and natural language voice control. Using the Audi phone box, compatible cell phones can be charged inductively and paired with the on-board antenna for optimal reception. The Audi smartphone interface displays selected apps from the cell phone directly in the Audi virtual cockpit. The Audi virtual cockpit with its 12.3-inch TFT monitor has a resolution of 1440 x 540 pixels and presents all information in detailed, elaborately rendered graphics. The virtual dial instruments, for example, are refreshed 60 times per second so that the motion of the needles is absolutely fluid, even under full acceleration. The optional Bang & Olufsen Sound System provides for an excellent sound experience on board.
Standard equipment
The following equipment will be offered on the Audi TT RS Coupé as standard:

19 inch Audi Sport alloy wheels
4 way lumbar support
Aluminium look in interior including aluminium race inlays
Front and rear spoiler in body colour
Audi drive select®
Audi music interface
Audi virtual cockpit
Audi sound system
Bluetooth interface
Cornering and poor weather light
Cruise control
Comfort key
Deluxe automatic air conditioning
Driver and front passenger airbag with front passenger airbag deactivation
Exterior mirror housings in matt aluminium look
Electric seat adjustment with pneumatic adjustment
Front S sports seats in fine Nappa leather trim with diamond stitching and RS embossing
Indirect tyre pressure monitoring system
Interior mirror with automatic anti-glare action
ISOFIX child seat mounting for passenger and rear seat
Leather-covered multifunction sports steering wheel, 3-spoke, flat-bottomed, with shift paddles
LED headlights with range control including dynamic turn signals at rear
LED rear lights with dynamic indicator
Light / rain sensor
Lighting package
MMI Navigation plus
Parking system plus with selective display
quattro®
RS sports exhaust system
RS suspension
Side airbags at front and head airbag system
Start/stop system

Pricing and timing
The Audi TT RS Coupé is priced at R963 000, standard with the 5 year/100 000km Audi Freeway Plan and inclusive of all taxes. Launched in November, the Audi TT RS Coupé is exclusively available at Audi Sport dealerships around South Africa.
                         	                  