
				                 Former African Union Commission chairwoman Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma must become the next president of the African National Congress (ANC) because she does not talk too much, ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said on Saturday.
“The time has come for a leader who does not talk too much. We need a leader who will not talk too much. That leader is Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma,” said Duarte while addressing a crowd of about 5,000 people during the rally of the ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) at the Solomon Mahlangu Stadium in KwaMhlanga, Mpumalanga.
Duarte also appealed to the members of the ANC and its leagues to be united for the sake of the organisation.

Dlamini-Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa are frontrunners in a race to be elected next ANC president at the organisation’s elective conference to be held next month.
The rally was part of the launch of the ANCWL’s programme called Lotjha Makhelwane (a Ndebele phrase meaning Hello neighbour).
 
Addressing the same gathering, ANCWL president and Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini said the programme was aimed at, amongst other things, helping poor people to get relevant documents so that they could register for social grants.

“Let us stand up, parents. Your neighbor must not be hungry while you are there,” said Dlamini.
Dlamini said the ANCWL would make sure that Dlamini Zuma emerged victorious from the conference.
“There is someone who always says the deputy president of the ANC must be the next president of the party. We don’t know where this person got that from. Now is the time for a woman president.”
Dlamini-Zuma, who delivered the keynote address at the same rally, appealed for peace during the build-up to and at the ANC conference. “We are asking you, branches and leaders, to let our conference be peaceful,” she said.
Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and ANC national executive committee member, Pule Mabe, were some of the prominent figures who also attended the rally.

Video PlayerDownload Filehttp://ana-baobab-prod-eu-west-2.s3.amazonaws.com/public/ana/media/2017/11/18/mana/912/ANCWL-rally-video360.webm
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  