
				                 Whoever emerges as the next leader of the African National Congress between the governing party’s seven presidential candidates, should show South Africans they are serious about fighting corruption by immediately recalling President Jacob Zuma from the Union Buildings.
That’s according to DA leader Mmusi Maimane.
Maimane said the ANC’s presidential candidates – including front-runners Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and former AU chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma – had tried to reinvent themselves as fighters of corruption, but were all complicit in supporting Zuma, Daily Maverick reported.
“But it’s all a trick, it’s an illusion.” Maimane said.
“[Deputy President Cyril] Ramaphosa has defended Zuma at times so I’m not here to pick him or pick NDZ [Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma].”
Maimane was speaking at Daily Maverick’s The Gathering on Thursday, in Sandton, Johannesburg.
He would not say which ANC leader he thought would be most suited to lead the 105-year-old organisation.
Maimane said the ANC’s upcoming national conference next month, due to be held in Johannesburg at Nasrec Expo Centre, did not matter.
“It will be business as usual. It will be someone else’s turn to eat,” he said.
The Gathering focused on the ANC’s presidential race, but three of the party’s presidential candidates withdrew from the event at the last minute.
Maimane said he found it ironic that none of the ANC presidential hopefuls had not attended despite confirming their attendance.
He called on the winning candidate to also immediately institute the commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture, remove National Prosecuting Authority head, Shaun Abrahams, and put the brakes on the controversial nuclear build programme.
ALSO READ:
Zim’s Zanu-PF and ANC are in the same ‘WhatsApp group’, says Maimane


For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.

                         	                   
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
