Arusha. Specialisation and tailored service provisions are the secrets behind the TahaFresh Handling Ltd (TFHL) to become one of Tanzania’s 100 fastest growing mid-sized companies in the country, the company has said. During this year’s Tanzania Top 100 Mid-sized Companies Survey - which is a brainchild of KPMG and Mwananchi Communications Limited – TFHL came tenth out of 100 companies. This was despite the fact that TFHL - a third party logistics company specializing on horticultural products - was participating for the first time in the event As one of the fastest growing third party logistic company, TFHL prides itself on being able to provide customized solutions and rapid logistical services for their global customer-base. “We are very happy indeed for the recognition as among the top ten fastest growing companies out of top 100 midsized companies. Our specialty and customized services provision are the factors behind the success” said TFHL general manager Amani Temu, shortly after having received the award last week. What started as a mere freight-forwarding firm to serve few horticultural growers in Arusha to export their perishable goods is now the reliable logistic firm attending the country’s horticultural industry. The current award is the second in a row this year for TFHL after having recognized by the Global Airline, Royal Dutch Airline KLM in mid this year, as a top performer in Tanzania, providing comprehensive supply chain management services to its customers. “TFHL is slowly, but surely becoming a leading horticulture logistics specialist, which understands and designs solutions for the country’s nearly $700million worth nascent industry” noted Mr Temu. According to Mr Temu, THFL will commence airlifting avocado fruits from Tanzania through Royal Dutch airline, KLM, anytime soon. If all goes well, TFHL said that the first shipment would be 20 tonnes. Idea is to airlift all the 150 tonnes of Tanzania’s avocado production at the short season of November-December. Tanzania usually produces avocado in two seasons per year. Peak season is from March-September, when TFHL exports 4,400 tonnes through sea. During this season the demand for the avocado is rather modest. However, in November-December short season it’s an opportune moment for Tanzania’s growers because the European market is usually hungry for avocado, according to Mr Temu. The airfreight model will save Tanzania’s avocado growers freight time as it will reduce from 40 days when use sea freight from farm to European markets to just three days. “We want to make sure that our avocado reach the market at the most apt time when the market is extremely hungry for the fruit to maximize profits for our farmers” TFHL boss explains. Available records indicate that TFHL handles at least 10 million kg of horticulture products from Tanzania per annum. It offers a wide range of horticultural products export and import services including its flagship airfreight, clearing and forwarding, refrigerated trucking, perishable handling, sea freight from both Dar Es Salaam and Mombasa ports. Taha chief executive Jacqueline Mkindi is proud of TahaFresh Handling Ltd.  , due to the company’s pivotal role in providing timely and reliable logistic services to the industry players which is also part of the Taha strategic pillars. Ms Mkindi, narrated that the company’s services are improving tremendously, and that, its contribution in the industry transformation cannot be overemphasized. She commended the work done by the TFHL team particularly in addressing the cross border horticulture trade and other technical barriers to trade in close collaboration with the Taha advocacy team. TahaFresh continues to operate, as an industry professional logistics business affiliated with the best international standard setters such as the International Air Transport Association (Iata) and the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (Fiata). TFHL is also now an official member of World Cargo Alliance (WCA) network. The WCA is the world’s most powerful grouping of independent freight forwarders with more than 6,473 members in 789 cities and ports worldwide. TFHL is now part of the 6,473 freight forwarders who are present in over 190 countries worldwide. This is yet another milestone to the horticultural farmers in Tanzania as they will enjoy reliable and competitive services from multiple global freight forwarders across the world