
				                 There’s a weird vibe in the Springboks’ camp ahead of their final Test of 2017 against Wales in Cardiff on Saturday.
The players and coaching staff seem to treat the match as some type of glorious climax, almost like their playing in a final of a World Cup.
Siya Kolisi confirmed as much.
“Franco Smith (the Boks’ backline coach) told us that we will be remembered for this game against Wales until we play again,” the Springboks’ stalwart flanker was quoted as saying by SARugbymag.co.za.
“We’re going to give it everything we have this weekend.”
Nobody can fault passion but Smith’s inspiring words seem a bit exaggerated.
A win at the Principality Stadium this weekend won’t add much gloss to South Africa’s season.
Yes, eight wins out of 13 Tests is a marked improvement on 2016’s horrific four from 12 haul but the reality is that coach Allister Coetzee will still finish with a lowly 48% win record over two years even if the Boks beat Wales.
Virtually all those wins came against mediocre opposition and record defeats to the All Blacks and Ireland provided a more realistic picture of where the Boks are.
Smith’s positivity then suggests it’s more of a ploy for the current coaching staff to have something to cling on to when Coetzee’s performance review is conducted early next month.
What can’t be denied though is Kolisi’s eagerness to be back.
The 26-year-old missed last week’s 35-6 win over Italy due to the birth of his second child yet is fully focused to spearhead a Springbok charge.
After all, Kolisi will be regarded as the senior man in the loose trio as Francois Louw and Duane Vermeulen are unavailable.
“It was tough to watch the game against Italy last week. That was a great performance, especially by the forwards, and I would have loved to have been part of it.
“I’m fortunate to be back for this last game,” he said.
Forwards coach Matt Proudfoot is also happy that Kolisi, who’s arguably had his breakthrough season at international level, back.
“Siya’s got special skills,” he said.
“I’d rather have him play to those strengths than try to play like Flo or Duane.”
ALSO READ:
Springboks need the 30-Test rule scrapped … immediately!

For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  