
				                 Vicomte looked really promising in his first two starts and was ridden from a poor draw in his third career start but can get back to his best form in Race 6 on the Vaal Classic track today.
The three-year-old Var gelding’s debut was hugely promising. He started even-money favourite and rewarded his supporters with a good win over Darkest Hour (second next time and has won twice since) and next-time winner Cold Front over 1000m on the Inside track at the Vaal. Then rested for three months, he followed that run with a second to Alfolk in the Golden Loom Handicap next time out.
Trainer Gavin van Zyl then gave him a really tough test in CTS’s 1400m Emperors Palace Ready To Run Cup at Turffontein on Charity Mile Day. He was drawn No 13 out of 16 and dropped out. He never really got going and finished 10th behind Big Bear. Back over what, at this stage of his career, seems to be his optimal distance Vicomte will make a bold bid. Sometimes horses coming back in distance need a sharpener, so he cannot be relied upon and that brings other horses into the reckoning. Rebel’s Champ, from the inform Paul Peter stable, is one to consider for Exactas and Swingers.
He seems to have been a problematic individual, having been rested twice since his 1.50-length second to So Var (beat Alfolk by two lengths next time) over 1160m at Turffontein in June. He returned for the first time in September over 1160m at Turffontein and something seems to have gone amiss in that race. Favourite, he stayed on for fourth behind Minnesota. Out for another two months, he moved up but then hung late and weakened to fifth behind Pinnacle Peak over 1200m on the main course here.
He will be fitter for that outing. Cathedral County is another horse with a chance. Johan Janse van Vuuren’s runner has won four of his eight career starts, most recently beating Bono by 1.40 lengths over this course and distance with Magic third. Even at the revised weights, Magic will have to improve to turn the tables. Best of the others could be All Night Flight (very well weighted with Cathedral County), Marmook, who can improve in his second run after a rest and being gelded). Same-race exotic players should float Vicomte with as many horses as affordable.
 
                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  