
				                 The Proteas’ shouldn’t take the possibility of experienced men like Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel being available for the day-night Test against Zimbabwe in Port Elizabeth next month for granted.
That reality became stark on Wednesday after Titans coach Mark Boucher revealed that Steyn has been sent back to Cape Town for further rehab on his shoulder.
It doesn’t mean the champion 34-year-old quick, who’s played three Ram Slam T20 matches to date, is injured again.
Instead, it’s an illustration that T20 cricket simply won’t be enough to get Steyn ready for Tests.
“He’s back in the Cape for some rehab work,” Boucher said on Wednesday ahead of the Titans’ meeting with the Dolphins in Benoni on Friday evening.
“Ultimately, T20 cricket is four overs per game for a bowler. So the workload actually isn’t a lot. We have a responsibility to get Dale ready for Test cricket again. He’s gone back home to determine how his body has handled the last three games, of which two were back-to-back.”
Simulated match conditions are probably still less effective than playing proper cricket – regardless of the format – but it’s hoped that if Steyn can bowl a bit on his own, his body will get more match fit.
“Dale has to do some ‘harder’ bowling – if you want to call it that,” said Boucher.
“He needs to get more overs under the belt. In a Test match, you sometimes need to bowl 20 per day. He’s not ready for that yet.”
Fast bowling depth has been one of the biggest themes since Ottis Gibson has taken over as Proteas coach and despite Steyn’s promising comeback, that situation is only marginally improved.
Chris Morris is only earmarked for a return next week as he recovers from a lower back injury.
And Morne Morkel’s elder brother Albie has sobering news on him as well.
“According to my information, Morne will only be back for the playoffs of the T20 tournament,” the Titans captain said.
“He won’t be back earlier and I doubt he’ll actually be considered for selection given that it will be so late.”
ALSO READ:
What we’ve learned from the Ram Slam to date

For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 
 
                         	                  