
				                 Cape Town got a taste of China’s much punted Belt and Road Initiative when China’s national liquor brand Kweichou Maotai was launched on African soil.
Under the theme “Meeting in Africa through the Unique Aroma the Belt and Road  Branding Initiative” was held at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Friday, with aim of cementing the relationship between the two countries.
Mautai Group general manager Li Baofang, who led the delegation of nearly 100 Chinese business people to the event,said Moutai has been witnessing the profound friendship between China and South Africa.
“The BRICS are embracing the second golden decade of cooperation. China and South Africa will establish a more extensive partnership. South Africa is one one of the major countries covered by the Belt and Road Initiative.
“Mautai has entered 26 countries and regions along the Belt and Road and the annual global trade welcome of Mautai reaches several hundred million US dollars. The Belt and Road inspire cultural exchange and economic cooperation everywhere it goes.”

Video PlayerDownload Filehttp://ana-baobab-prod-eu-west-2.s3.amazonaws.com/public/ana/media/2017/11/18/mana/213/IMG_6511_1_360.webm
Kweichou Maotai invited more than 500 local guests from various spheres of government, business, culture, and distributors, and follows similar successful promotions in Moscow, Milan and in Germany and United States.
Consul General of China in Cape Town Kang Yong said “Maotai is not only a liquid, not only a material product, it’s also something spirit. Maotai now already exported to Northern America and European countries, however, very few were exported to the African continent. So the Maotai company is so smart that now they came to Cape Town, they want Capetonians to be the first to taste Maotai, and then the people of the whole South Africa”.
He added that Maotai company also wanted to use Cape Town as the gateway to the rest of the continent. “I am confident that Maotai will gain its success in its strategy.”
Suzette Little of the City of Cape Town said: “This is an opportunity for Capetonians, for South Africans to move forward and to create a better opportunity for all.”
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  