
				                 When you hear the name Sean Singleton it is synonymous with the passion of racing and his expected “woer-woer masjien” warcry. A passionate racing man, Sean Singleton made a big impact last season as the owner of historymaking stayer
Hermoso Mundo and his colourful “woer-woer masjien” warcry has become so keenly anticipated he is now expected to deliver it whenever stepping up on to the winner’s podium. Singleton now finds himself in dreamland once again as Hermoso Mundo has shot to the top of the Gauteng Sansui Summer Cup betting boards and is 7-1 joint favourite with Abashiri. The five-year-old Ideal World gelding made his seasonal reappearance earlier this month in the Emperor’s Palace Charity Mile.
He appeared to run a bit of a flat race at first sight, finishing a 9.25-length 14th . The run hardly seemed to justify him becoming Summer Cup favourite. Singleton said he had also initially been disappointed with the run, but soon had a different view.
He said: “He was running over a distance short of his best and if you watch the replay he accelerated superbly at the 300m mark. Weichong (Marwing) was beaming from ear to ear when he returned to the parade ring. He will be cherry ripe for the Summer Cup and I am sure he will bring his ‘woer-woer’ when it counts at his home course over a more suitable trip (2000m).”
Hermoso Mundo became the first horse to win the “gold” triple crown, consisting of the Gold Bowl (3200m), the Gold Vase (3000m) and the Gold Cup (3200m). He is obviously at his best over 3200m, but another key is his turnaround in form since joining the Weiho Marwing yard.
His record for the yard is three victories in four starts and he has gone from a 73 merit rating to 100. He has a beautiful, long-striding action, so is perfectly suited to the galloping Turffontein Standside track with its long straight. Hermoso Mundo will carry a light weight and the big bay is sure to be staying on strongly on 25 November. Racing fans will be looking forward to that war cry if the bookmakers are proven to have it right. – Gold Circle.
The draws for barrier positions were balloted after deadline last night. Betting World’s latest Summer Cup betting: 7-1 Abashiri, Hermoso Mundo; 9-1 Brazuca, Orchid Island; 10-1 French Navy, Crowd Pleaser, Pagoda; 12-1 Social Order; 14-1 Master Switch, Banner Hill, Liege; 16-1 Girl On The Run, Coral Fever; 18-1 Wind Chill; 20-1 Master Sabina; 25-1 New Predator, Tilbury Fort; 40-1 Fort Ember; 45-1 Let It Rain; 66-1 Mac De Lago.
                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  