
				                 People tend to give themselves free passes to indulge in whatever they want when they go on vacation. It’s possible to enjoy a holiday as well as the local food that comes with it, without having to worry about putting on extra weight.
It’s important for you to understand what your destination has to offer for food, exercise or anything else that may be of importance to your wellness. Don’t let going on vacation distract you from your health commitments.
When on holiday we tend to eat out a lot more, so when dining out make sure that you go for carb clever options. Most restaurants like Col’Cacchio, Spur and Doppio Zero have these options on their menus.
Gert Coetzee, pharmacist and diet pioneer who founded The Diet Everyone Talks About, believes that it is not that difficult to stay healthy while on holiday.
Below he shares some hints and tips.
Fish and chips
One of the best options for a quick, tasty and healthy light lunch while on the beach is fish and chips. To stay healthy, just remove the batter. Ask for sweet potato chips or indulge in potato chips, but only have half a portion.
Burgers
Burgers are always a great meal option but can be filled with carbs. The good news is that you don’t have to give them up – you just have to swap your bun with something healthier. Replacing the bun from your burger with a healthier option is a good way to decrease the total carb content of your meal. Below are some healthy options:

Mushroom bun replacements: Mushrooms make great sliders. These are also very manageable for the children.


Sweet potato buns: Slice sweet potatoes with the skin on and grill or bake them.


Tomato buns: Slice tomatoes in half and scoop out the seeds. These will make a nice healthy bun for your burger.


Flatbread: This is great for sandwiches and of course hamburger buns!


Lettuce: You can also use lettuce as a bun – more like a wrap.

So go on and have that burger. Just make sure that you don’t order corn dogs!
Snacks for the beach or road trip
Dry snacks are probably the best thing to take along on a road trip or visit to the beach. These snacks include: nuts, biltong, vegetable sticks, sunflower seeds and wholegrain biscuits.
Braai
South Africa’s favourite past time is having a braai. Braaing is a very easy way of keeping carbs out of your meal. Braaied meat paired with salads is a definite winner!
Alcohol
When it comes to alcohol, moderation is key. Having moderate alcohol means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men, so rather go with wine spritzers and light beer options.
Go on and indulge in a glass or two of wine or beer, and remember to drink your water – just don’t indulge in those cocktails! Another good option is a refreshing rock shandy.
Exercise
Your best intention is to hike and take a walk, but the reality is that you’re on holiday and just want to sit, relax, watch TV or read a book. Here are some ways to keep your body active while enjoying your vacation:

Instead of using public transport or taking an Uber, take a walk. You might bump into some nice architecture and artwork as well meet some amazing local people.


Have a game of volleyball or soccer with the children on the beach.


Take your yoga mat with when you go to the beach and have a quick yoga session.


Park your car four blocks away from the beach instead of the public car park for those few extra steps.

Simple food swaps to help you eat healthier

For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  