
				                 While some quarters of the local cricketing community smile proudly over how the Proteas have made the Ram Slam T20 challenge competitive, the reality is that they’ve unwittingly shed light on cracks in the domestic system.
The gulf in standard between the international players and the franchise regulars has been worryingly big.
And it spells bad news.
Here’s why domestic cricket is in serious trouble.
Titans dominance
Throughout the years, the Centurion-based franchise has been strong anyway but their depth at the moment is scary.
With 10 Proteas on the books in this tournament, it’s little wonder that they top the log comfortably.
What is a concern though is that none of the rest have been able to even remotely trouble them.
Captain Albie Morkel even noted previously that it’s been opposition’s own poor form rather than the Titans’ own powers that have seen them dominate.
It’s not a problem if the Titans win again this season but at least you want them to face an uphill battle to do so.
That doesn’t seem like happening.
The Proteas’ stats
In an ideal world, a tournament of this stature actually wants the national players to bring out the best in the other local players.
However, to date it seems that the Protea players are “carrying” this Ram Slam.
Out of the top 8 run scorers, only the Highveld Lions’ opener Rassie van der Dussen (165 runs) hasn’t played international cricket yet.
Meanwhile, Proteas regulars like JP Duminy (217), Hashim Amla (171), David Miller (168) and AB de Villiers (130) are scoring most of the runs as well as men on the cusp of selection – Reeza Hendricks (319), Theunis de Bruyn (162) and Aiden Markram (146).
Where are the unknown players making a name for themselves?
It’s even worse among the bowlers.
Of the top five wicket-takers in the tournament, only the Knights’ Shadley van Schalkwyk (7) isn’t an international.
Dodgy captaincy and tactics
To be honest, franchise cricket has never been particularly good at developing astute captains.
Yet the past weekend’s double header at Newlands illustrated how weak the leadership of various teams is.
Aaron Phangiso, an experienced campaigner but relatively new captain, made costly decisions for the Highveld Lions.
The sight of him placing five fielders outside the circle when his best bowler – Kagiso Rabada – was bowling and yearning for support to build pressure was not a flattering one.
De Bruyn was also naive for the Knights when he didn’t have a third man stationed when it’s well known that Vernon Philander is a good nudger.
Other captains have also been more reactive than proactive.
Mixed signals from the national selectors
Watching poor Beuran Hendricks get smashed for 50 off his four overs at Newlands was an indictment on national selection policy.
The Lions left-arm seamer averages a horrible 104 with the ball at the moment and goes for almost 12 per over.
And then one wonders how he actually made it into the Proteas squad for the T20 series against Bangladesh just over a month ago?
He also struggled there.
The same can be said of Wayne Parnell, who’s gone from playing a Test in Bloem to getting dropped by the Cobras.
The question then has to be asked how this reflects on the selectors (after all, Hendricks and Parnell don’t pick themselves)?
Are they picking guys to play international cricket who still seem like they first need to deal with franchise cricket?
Also, why has a player like Dane Paterson and Dwaine Pretorius lost form since returning from an extended stint in the national side?
They’re supposed to be better at domestic level with their newfound Proteas knowledge not regress so badly.
Specialist coaching is too scarce
Tight budgets mean most of the franchise can’t afford specialist coaches.
Many of them have to handle more than one portfolio.
One area that has suffered is fielding, a real feature of the Ram Slam edition.
While the catching has been inconsistent, the real worry has been poor, basic ground fielding.
That’s basic discipline any side needs to get right.
Franchises currently don’t.
ALSO READ:
Dazzling Duminy puts the Cape Cobras back on track

For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  