
				                 Even amid the massive distraction of the Ben Stokes assault saga, Warne believes it’s the tourists who no longer hold any fears about an unsettled Australian cricket team.
The Australian leg-spin great says Australia are in a shambles with wicketkeeper Tim Paine’s surprise selection pointing to a lack of direction from selectors.
Paine, chosen for his first Test in seven years, and 34-year-old Shaun Marsh recalled to the Test side for the eighth time, were the controversial selections announced on Friday for next week’s first Test in Brisbane. 
Pundits say Australia’s Gabba fortress, where the home side is unbeaten in almost 30 years, is now under threat from an England squad missing their best player all-rounder Stokes, back at home and under investigation over a nightclub brawl.
“At the moment, where the biggest shift has come over the last few years is they don’t fear Australia anymore,” Warne told reporters on Friday.
“England no longer fear Australia and haven’t for a long time and hence that’s why they can beat Australia.
“England, I think at the moment, are just going along nicely. They’re just doing their business.
“Australia look confused. They’re picking wicketkeepers that aren’t even keeping for their state.
“To me, I think England are in a better situation going into that first Test match than what Australia are.”
Television commentating veteran Bill Lawry agreed with Warne that Australia is missing a Mitchell Johnston-styled intimidator, despite Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins capable of bowling fast.
“I think the big key to this Ashes series is Mitchell Johnson and he’s not playing,” Lawry said.
“If I was an opening batsman I wouldn’t be losing too much sleep facing the Australian pace attack as far as pace is concerned.
“They’re all good bowlers but they’re not going to frighten you.”
Former Test captain Michael Clarke said the Australian team was unsure about their playing style heading into the five-Test series.
Warne is predicting the Ashes series to be the hardest-fought and most dramatic since the iconic 2005 campaign, which England famously won in a fifth-Test decider.
The leg-spinning great says both sides are weak because they rely too much on two players — Australia on David Warner and Steve Smith and England on Alastair Cook and Joe Root.
“It will get down to how those guys bat,” said Warne.
                         	                  