
				                 The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal on Friday said it was deeply saddened by the loss of Inkosi Vela Shembe, the leader of the Nazareth Baptist Church (Shembe).
“The passing of Inkosi Shembe is a sad loss to his family, the congregation and people of our province and the entire mass democratic movement. We should not mourn his passing but celebrate his life and the role he played to promote values of ubuntu in our communities as a religious leader,” said ANC KZN provincial secretary Super Zuma.
“We want to extend our most heartfelt condolences to his family, congregation and all our people he served. We have today lost a father and community leader,” added Cde Zuma.
The party said Inkosi Shembe would be missed by millions of people throughout the length and breadth of the province and that the role he played in building the nation would never be forgotten.
Shembe died at his home late on Thursday night after an illness. The church, which claims to have a five-million-strong following, made headlines last year after a very public succession battle between Vela and his nephew Mduduzi Shembe finally concluded at the Durban High Court.
The succession battle started in 2011 with the death of iNkosi Vimbeni Shembe, which led to a schism between followers of Mduduzi and Vela, and a five-year court case that saw police having to separate the men’s followers after a physical confrontation between the factions at the court.
In October 2016, KwaZulu-Natal judge president Achmet Jappie ruled in favour of Vela as the titular head of the church.
In February, Vela dismissed as “malicious” and “rubbish” rumours on social media that he had died. The rumours were allegedly initiated by a woman who was aligned with Mduduzi’s church faction.
Ndabezinhle Sibiya, spokesperson for KwaZulu-Natal premier Willies Mchunu, said that provincial government had conveyed condolences to Shembe’s family and the church.
Shembe’s spokesperson, Mkululeko Mthethwa, could not immediately be reached for comment.
– African News Agency (ANA)
ALSO READ:
Leader of Shembe Church dies


For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.

                         	                   
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
