        School holidays are almost here, it is great time for children to bond with their parents and relatives. For almost six months, children were busy with school. To them, the end of the year is a perfect time to relax and enjoy the holiday. This is, therefore, a good time for children to play as well as take on some house chores in order to learn a bit of responsibilities on their personal life. Children know that, this is their great and quality time to meet and spend with their parents, brothers and sisters as well as grandparents, other family members and friends. It is also a perfect time for them to travel. Laura Honathan believes parents and guardians should not deny them this rare opportunity which comes only twice a year because it allows children to meet new people and explore the countryside to get that extra exposure and relax after several months in class. “For the children, it is always a new experience and above all they get exposure during travel, which can inspire them and help strengthen bonds between family members,” she says. According to her during such vacation parents should encourage children to mingle with their good peers and make new friends, play together and engage in fun activities. “Therefore, visits to amusement parks or theme park over the weekend will be a perfect place for them to enjoy,” she adds. Denis Jonathan is a Grade Seven teacher, he believes that parents need to prepare a time table on which a child holiday is based on, the time table should take into consideration time to do school work and domestic activities, sport, rest and more extra activities according to your desire. To make them more active children can also be enrolled for a dance, music or painting classes. “It is good and advisable for children to say what new skill they would like to acquire or whether they would like to sharpen their existing skills over the holidays. Apart from that children can learn new art and craft,” he says. It is most common for some religious organisations or even schools to organise holiday camps for children and most of the time, such holiday camp offer programmes that involve a bit of training in art, sports, music, camping and outings.     