Today’s story in Your Health is about a man who has finally confessed that smoking tobacco in the form of cigarettes is dangerous to health. Unfortunately, he confesses when it’s too late.However, it may not be too late for you to make a decision. Mr Bagara, 64, had attempted to quit, several times, as he narrates but, he lacked enough will-power to do so—he was  in some sort of a ‘cage.’Deciding that you are now ready to quit smoking is only half the battle and for Mr Bagara it was a battle half-achieved because, there is a time he scaled down to about 5 cigarettes a day, from the 40 he was smoking.Nevertheless, he did not sustain the battle, not until he started getting sick and doctors gave him the shocking news that he had actually developed cancer of the oesophagus. According to the story, medics had repeatedly warned him against the habit.The challenge in quitting cigarettes, as I have observed among many smokers, is usually on knowing where to start from.  These can be effective ways, if you start today.Experts advise that you first of all make an honest list of all the things you like about smoking, according to rd.com.Then, make another list of why quitting won’t be easy, they say. Set the date to quit. Write all your reasons for quitting on an index card.• As you’re getting ready to quit, stop buying cartons of cigarettes.• Keep a list of when you smoke for a week before quitting.• Prepare a list of things to do when a craving hits.• Quit when you’re in a good mood.• When your quit date arrives, throw out anything that reminds you of smoking.• Put all the money you’re saving on cigarettes in a large glass jar.• Think of difficult things you have done in the past.• Instead of a cigarette break at work, do something else interesting. You can play a game on your computer or something else to keep you happy. • Tell your friends, coworkers, boss, partner, and kids how you feel.• If you relapse, just start again the process. You haven’t failed. Some people have to quit as many as eight times before they are successful.If you do all this, you will have avoided much health risks in your life.This is because, there are more than 4000 chemicals in tobacco smoke, of which at least 250 are known to be harmful and more than 50 are known to cause cancer, according to The World Health Organisation (WHO). Stay safe, make informed health choices! six.buguzi@gmail.com