A passerby looks on at people's belongings, 2 June 2017, after the Red Ants evicted a few hundred people from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega A woman goes through her belongings looking for items of importance, 2 June 2017, after the Red Ants evicted a few hundred people from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega Two woman go through their belongings looking for items of importance, 2 June 2017, after the Red Ants evicted a few hundred people from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega A woman goes through her belongings looking for items of importance, 2 June 2017, after the Red Ants evicted a few hundred people from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega A pedestrian walks past a group of members of the Red Ants during an eviction, 2 June 2017, where a few hundred people were kicked off from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega Members of the Red Ants are seen during an eviction, 2 June 2017, where a few hundred people were kicked off from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega Members of the Red Ants are seen during an eviction, 2 June 2017, where a few hundred people were kicked off from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega A group of people who were earlier evicted by the Red Ants stand around burning rubbish, 2 June 2017, after being evicted from land that is currently owned by the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) along Carr Street, in Newtown. Violence did flare up during the evictions with a number of people being injured. Stone were thrown and rubber bullets were fired. Picture: Michel Bega