There is no application made to rename Voortrekker street in Coligny, Ditsobotla mayor said on Thursday. We have not receive any application to rename a street in Coligny, such application is prematures, mayor Daniel Buthelezi told African News Agency. He was speaking on the sideline of a sod turning ceremony, where the municipality had donated a piece of land to build a house for Matlhomola Jonas Mosweu s family. Moabi Ompie Thebeyagae of Itekeng in Bisiesvlei on May 23, said in an open letter that Voortrekker Street must be renamed to Matlhomola Jonas Mosweu. The young people of Coligny and Ditsobotla in general would also agree with me when I consciously submit to the department of Arts and Culture in Bokone Bophirima [North West] and the National Geographic Names Committee to review and rename Voortrekker Street in Coligny to Matlhomola Mosweu in memory of the fallen innocent son of the soil, he said. Matlhomola Mosweu, 16, of Scotland informal settlement, died after he allegedly jumped out of a moving van on April 20. Pieter Doorewaard, 26, and Phillip Schutte, 34, accused of his murder, alleged they found him stealing sunflower at their employer s field near Scotland informal settlement. They put him onto the back of the van intending to hand him over to the police but, he jumped out of the moving van 3km away from the police station. He suffered neck injuries and died on his way to hospital, however an eyewitness told the police Matlhomola was pushed out the van. The two are out on R5000 bail each and were expected back in court on August 7. Mosweu s death triggered violent mass protest in which six houses and three trucks were set alight, several shops were looted and damaged. Buthelezi said despite the tension experience two months ago, residents of Coligny black and white were gradually coming together. He described the situation two months ago, as an isolated and unfortunate incident. Mosweu s family was expected to move from Scotland informal settlement to occupy their new home in December.