The Equality Court has awarded damages of R100 000 to Johannesburg police Constable Clement Mkhondo for being verbally assaulted by Vicki Momberg when he was attempting to assist her after she was involved in a crime incident last year. In February 2016, Momberg, 48, was caught on video shouting racial abuse at police officers who had come to her assistance after she became the victim of a smash-and-grab robbery in Johannesburg. The Equality Court sitting in the Randburg Magistrates Court also ordered Momberg to attend a programme of integrated community service and sensitivity training administered by the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) along with affiliate organisations such as the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. As part of the programme, Momberg will be required to visit the Apartheid Museum, attend SAHRC community outreach and advocacy programmes, and attend race sensitisation workshops conducted by the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. Finally, she was ordered to make an unconditional written apology to Mkhondo, which apology had to incorporate an unequivocal retraction of all or any racial and/or discriminatory and/or abusive remarks amounting to hate speech made against black persons in general. The apology was ordered to be published on Twitter and Facebook as well as the SAHRC s website. Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr law firm said in a statement the Equality Court order was to be welcomed, and hoped it would send out a strong warning that racist hate speech, which was inimical to the constitutional values and which threatened the foundations of South Africa s young democracy, would not and could not be countenanced. It is also hoped that the novel order of requiring Ms Momberg to attend a specially designed sensitivity training/community service programme under the auspices of the SAHRC will usher in a mechanism that can be made available on a more widespread basis going forward to help address some of the root causes of racism, the firm said. During the trial Momberg s defence was that she was suffering from temporary non-pathological incapacity at the time following the smash-and-grab incident that took place earlier that evening. The court said Momberg was found to have been in a state of mind where she could appreciate the wrongfulness of her actions and was able to target her abuse at her victims. African News Agency (ANA)