Geoff Woodruff looks to have a decent filly in Guns And Roses and although taking a jump in class the daughter of Trippi looks the one they all have to beat in Race 8 at Turffontein tomorrow, a FM 84 Handicap over 1600m on the Inside track. Guns And Roses has only run three times, finishing a 2.80 length third behind State Star on debut over 1160m on the Standside track. She has followed that up with two wins, the first over the straight 1475m track at the Vaal and then over 1600m at this track. She beat Boudica by a comfortable 2.60 lengths at the Vaal but was made to work a lot harder in her next start when fighting on well to hold off Miss Turbo by 0.90 lengths. In fairness, she had that race won quite a long way out after hitting the front early in the straight and all Piere Strydom had to do was keep her mind on the job. She only received a 1.5kg penalty for that performance so Guns And Roses comes into this race with just 53kg on her back. Marco van Rensburg, undoubtedly one of the most underrated jockeys in the country, takes the ride this time and will make full use of the light weight. The pair jump from middle-of-the-road No 7 draw. There was a lot to like about the manner in which Raes Dyna Jet won on her debut run on the Highveld, running down Trellis late to win easier than the 0.60-length margin might suggest. That run was on the Standside track but she has performed well on the Polytrack at Greyville so she should have little problem with the tighter Inside course. This Gavin van Zyl-trained runner is beautifully drawn at gate No 2 and has Keagan de Melo in the irons. Woodruff has some decent back up with Alexa, winner of the Listed Syringa Handicap for fillies and mares over 1600m at this track. She came with a powerful late run to snare Kilauea just short of the line. It was a great ride from Chase Maujean but he will have his work cut out this time as Alex carries 6.5kg more and will have to contend with No 12 draw. Turn Back Time should not be ignored. She had to contend with a very wide draw last time and was only 5.50 lengths behind Raes Dyna Jet. She is now 4kg better off, jumps from barrier No 8 and has S manga Khumalo in the irons. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.