Gemini 22 May &#8211; 21 June Concentrate on a rickety relationship with a loved one today, and start communicating about current problems. Plus use your intuition to help you zero in on how they are really feeling. Cancer 22 June 23 July One half of you wants to be sociable and take on the world, while the other half longs for some peace and quiet and privacy. The solution? Be a well-balanced Crab and juggle both sides today. Leo 24 July 23 August It s a fortunate day for work, as the Moon and Venus give your professional zone a boost. But don t take shortcuts, Cats. At the moment, the best recipe for long-term success is hard work. Virgo 24 August 23 September Virgos, thrive on being capable and self-sufficient but don t let yourself become too isolated from those around you. Ask for help when you really need it others are happy to lend a hand. Libra 24 September 23 October A personal or professional relationship will be complicated today, Libra, as communication becomes stressful. If you walk in the other person s shoes, then you ll know just what to say. Scorpio 24 October 22 November You ve got a choice today Scorpio! You can be super powerful and persuasive or compulsive and controlling. So strive to use your energy in plenty of positive and proactive ways. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December There may be a disagreement between you and a loved one today but don t worry Sagittarius. You both require some space to sort through your feelings. Then things will get back on track again. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Venus boosts your artistic side, so find a creative project you can really get your teeth into. Don t be a complacent Capricorn though. The more passion you put into projects, the happier you ll be. Aquarius 21 January 19 February Accept domestic duties with a spring in your step today, Aquarius. A loved one may turn to you for some timely words of wisdom. If you look within, then you ll give them the right advice. Pisces 20 February 20 March Getting up-to-speed with personal projects is a priority today, Pisces, as you put your head down and get organised. It s a fabulous time to rejuvenate your goals and aspirations for the future. Aries 21 March 20 April Have fun fraternising with family or close friends today, Rams, but avoid butting in and being bossy. Sometimes loved ones have to make their own mistakes in their own unique way. Taurus 21 April 21 May If you have a problem you re facing, you ll find a combination of head and heart works wonders today. When it comes to managing money matters and joint finances, don t take shortcuts.