Every year, the horseracing world gets caught up in the frenzy of the Vodacom Durban July and the weeks leading up to the big event are filled with debates about the eventual winner. Racing. It&#8217;s a Rush It s an occasion that puts the sport on the front of the social pages with celebs and fashionistas bringing out their best looks for the occasion. Everyone knows the first Saturday of July is reserved for the Sport of Kings. If you can t get to Kwa-Zulu Natal for the big day then don t panic you can still catch Durban July fever with the July in Jozi presented by World Sports Betting at Turffontein Racecourse. It s an afternoon that will see the Johannesburg track roar to life with live horseracing action and a chance to feel part of the Durban July with a live crossing on the big screen, and throughout the venue, all while enjoying superb hospitality. Tickets for seats in the Aquanaut Room have been flying with the R475 package including a delicious buffet offering from I sizwe Hospitality that includes a carvery and enough desserts to satisfy the sweetest tooth. Other culinary treats lined up include a comprehensive choice of starters and salads as well as chicken or vegetable biryani and lamb curry as the event heads into the early evening. The package also includes a Computaform, private tote facilities and live entertainment by Craig T from Jester. Those wanting to race in the Furious Room or on the City Deck can take advantage of the buffet offering at R245 per person. The July In Jozi is also the last chance for racegoers between the ages of 18-35 to enjoy the Racing. It s A Rush Member s Lounge for this season. Part of an initiative to highlight the lifestyle elements of the sport of horseracing to the next generation, the Member s Lounge offers newcomers a chance to enjoy the day in a relaxed environment. A strict dress code is enforced with gentlemen required to wear a blazer. Tickets for this venue are R500 and include a welcome drink, voucher, private bar and tote facilities and canape style snacks during the day. And Cape Town hasn t been left out either with a six race programme at Kenilworth Racecourse and a delicious a la carte lunch served up in the Pocket Power Room. Entrance to the venue is free. The July in Jozi presented by World Sports Betting will also help charities with 10 finalists chosen to take part in the WSB Charity Sprint on the afternoon. Each finalist has nominated a charity of their choice to benefit. Tickets for the July In Jozi start at R30 for general entrance, including a voucher, while Under-18s get access for R20 which includes a goodie bag. All purchases can be made through Webtickets on the following link http://bit.ly/JulyInJozi2017 and hospitality can also be booked by calling 011 681 1508. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.