Missing teeth cause problems that stretch beyond aesthetics, including serious health complications. Although if you visit your dentist at the right time and discuss about the options of missing tooth/teeth replacement and get the appropriate treatment done, you can maintain your oral health at its best also on the long term basis.Some common treatment options for the missing tooth/teeth are removable prosthesis like dentures, fixed teeth prosthesis like dental bridges or dental implants.In certain cases, the combination of implant-bridge prosthesis can also be advised. Let s discuss some common problems associated with missing tooth in the oral cavity.1. Jaw bone loss at site: Consider that when you exercise your body, you help to keep muscle tone jaw bone mass is preserved when you stimulate through biting and chewing. If you are missing a tooth, the area where your tooth stood will no longer receive the same amount of stimulation and will begin to disappear.2. Neighboring teeth will become misaligned: If you do not have adjacent teeth, teeth will begin to shift into the vacant gap created by your missing tooth.Drifting teeth will also destabilise the roots of the adjacent tooth. Also the opposite tooth to the missing space will keep on over-erupting and might become loose if left for long.3. Change of facial structure: Your facial structure relies heavily on the structure of your teeth. When you have a missing tooth for too long, your facial muscles can begin to droop and cause a change in your facial appearance which can lead to a huge loss of confidence.4. Disruption to your daily life: A missing tooth can cause chronic headaches as your remaining teeth do not have opposing teeth to bite down on to. Remaining teeth can begin to over erupt and damage opposing gums and cause pain. Overtime this will cause dull headaches.5. Overload on the adjoining teeth: Humans have 32 teeth, but each and every tooth has got its specific function like front teeth-the incisors are in the front of your mouth.These are the teeth that you use to take bites of your food helps in biting; Canines are the next type of teeth, these are sharpest teeth and are used for ripping and tearing food apart; Premolar and molars are used for chewing and grinding food.If even one tooth is missing the load of function becomes more on the adjoining once present in the mouth leading to more occlusal wear and tear causing sensitivity and even fracture of the adjoining teeth.6. Speech and chewing problem: It is fairly obvious that if you have a missing tooth, you are going to have some trouble breaking down food, though many people do not realise that missing teeth also affects the way you speak which can cause some embarrassment and confidence issues.Overtime, digestion can be affected as your mouth cannot break down foods correctly.7. Sinus expansion: This is particular to teeth that are lost from the back upper jaw. When this occurs, the sinus cavity located above can expand, eroding your jaw bone.