After missing the entire 2016 campaign, Handre Pollard would scarcely have imagined he would be limited to just six rather lacklustre Super Rugby appearances this year, but the Springbok flyhalf is in a race against time to feature in any of the Bulls last three matches this season. Pollard injured his ankle midway through April and made his return to rugby with an hour-long appearance for the Blue Bulls against the Valke in the SuperSport Rugby Challenge at Kempton Park three weeks ago and he was then expected to get a run for the SA A side against the French Barbarians at Orlando Stadium at the weekend. Also read: Johan Ackermann won t push Handre Pollard unnecessarily But the 23-year-old was a late withdrawal from the bench because he was still feeling some pain in his ankle. SA A coach Johan Ackermann told the media that scans had shown Pollard would be out of action for another week or two, with Bulls doctor Herman Rossouw confirming yesterday that the Western Cape product will be continuing his rehabilitation. Tian Schoeman and Tony Jantjies are likely to continue then as the two flyhalves when the Bulls resume Super Rugby action against the Sharks in Durban on Friday. But injuries to backs Rabs Maxwane, Jade Stighling and Ulrich Beyers mean the Bulls are going to need to find some wing cover. Jesse Kriel played on the wing in their last match, against the Hurricanes, with Beyers on the bench. Jamba Ulengo and Travis Ismaiel have recovered from their injuries but are only doing selected training, so they won t be available this weekend. The Bulls will also need a new No 8 after Hanro Liebenberg suffered a complex ankle ligaments injury against the Hurricanes and is out for at least eight weeks. Jacques Potgieter s time off the field continues as he goes through a concussion protocol, but loose forwards Shaun Adendorff and Roelof Smit are both available for selection. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Would you like to place a rugby bet? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.