It s a budget day! Today, in Dodoma, the Minister of Finance unveils the 2017/18 Budget.Last week I highlighted some of the directions the 2017/18 tax reforms might take to improve our tax system.A good tax system should strike a balance between the interests of both the taxpayer and the government and conforms to some appropriate set of canons.The Scottish economist Adam Smith was the first to develop a list of four canons of taxation back in 1770s through his magnum opus work: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations commonly abbreviated as The Wealth of Nations :1. Equity: Taxation should be equitable. Adam Smith argued that the taxes should be proportional to income. Tanzanians should pay the taxes in proportion to their incomes which they respectively enjoy under the protection of their government. Every person should pay tax depending on his ability to pay.2. Certainty: Taxation should be certain. The tax payer should be able to know in advance how much tax to pay, what time to pay the tax, and where to pay the tax. It should always be possible for different taxpayers who look at the tax law to come to the same interpretation. Clarity enables taxpayers to manage their incomes and expenditures. It also ensures that the government is certain about the amount of tax it will collect.3. Convenience: The mode and timing of tax payment should be as far as possible, convenient to the tax payers. A convenient tax system tends to encourage people to pay tax. Some tax offices require tax to be paid even when the entrepreneur has not started his business. This is a very common complaint among the business startups in Tanzania.4. Economy: The cost of tax collection should be lower than the amount of tax collected. It would make no sense to impose a tax that is difficult to administer. It may not serve any purpose, if the taxes imposed are widespread but are difficult to administer.The four canons are still regarded as characteristics or features of a good tax system. The modern economists expanded Smith s canons to include efficiency, simplicity and productivity among others: Efficiency: Tax should be both economically and administratively efficient. Tax is economically efficient if it does not distort economic choices of the people. It is administratively efficient if it enables the government to secure the revenue and prevent leakages. Efficient tax should enable taxpayers to incur as minimum cost as possible to comply. Small businesses represent the bulk of economic activity in Tanzania. Tax compliance cost tends to have a disproportionate effect on small businesses.Simplicity: The tax system should be simple to understand and to comply with. Complex tax system results into problems of interpretation and disputes. Complexity is in itself a distortion of the economy, as it tends to divert productive energies into non-productive administration or compliance. A complicated tax system is costly in the sense that even the most honest educated taxpayers will have to seek advice of the tax experts.Productivity: The tax system should be able to yield enough revenue and the government should have no need to resort to deficit financing. Fiscal inadequacy is one of the biggest challenges to developing economies like Tanzania. Productivity also requires that taxes should not hamper productive efforts but act as an incentive to production.To what extent do the tax reforms proposed in the 2017/18 Budget conform to these tax tenets? Finding the right balance of all these features poses a big challenge to policy makers.