South Africa s youth must take advantage of opportunities made available to them, President Jacob Zuma said on Friday. If you are still young you must stand up and find your own opportunities. It is wonderful to be a youth today, no one shoots at you. Stand up and make use of the opportunity government avails to you, Zuma said at the national Youth Day celebrations in Tshing, near Ventersdorp in North West. He said the youth of 1976 fought for political freedom which dawned in 1994 after a long protracted struggle. The youth is now fighting for social and economic freedom. The youth of 2017 is fighting for freedom from poverty, inequality and unemployment, he said. The government in 1976 responded with guns to the call of young people for freedom and a better life. The democratic government calls upon young people to work with us in all spheres of government, as we proceed to ensure that young people live in decent homes in communities with roads, electricity, water, recreational facilities. Zuma said it was unfair for companies to request that young people have experience before they were employed. If you have all the certificates, they want experience. I think it is unfair, he said to the applause from the audience. We want youth to access university and college education, to be free from drug and substance abuse, to be free from HIV and AIDS due to prevention and treatment. We want our youth to contribute to the advancement of the country in science and technology, sports, medicine and other fields. Most importantly, they must achieve economic freedom. Despite being booed at the start of his speech, Zuma completed his address interrupted. A group of people chanted Zuma must fall, Zuma must go when he started his speech. The group was however quickly removed from the giant tent erected on the sports ground. One of the group, Moleko Mojafi from Boikhutso near Ventersdorp, said Zuma s presence in Ventersdorp would not help their cause. It is useless for him to be here. Ventersdorp is undeveloped, we are unemployed, we do not have water, toilets and roads. I received a statement that I owe the municipality R400 for services I did not receive. It is useless to listen to the same lie again, it had been 23 years now Zuma called on the youth to imagine a South Africa with opportunities. Visualise a South Africa in which the people shall govern, in which the wealth of the country shall be restored to the people and where the land shall be shared among those who work it. Zuma received a rousing welcome, when he entered the marquee. The crowd, made up mostly of pupils in their respective school uniforms, stood up and waved small flags in the air with Zuma waving back to greet them. He was flanked by Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa and North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo.