We all watched in horror as fires engulfed Knysna last week. We sat there hopelessly wondering what we can do to help while the firefighters risked their lives to save the community and their homes. Unfortunately, the fires weren t without fatalities. The fires also left a path of destruction with many organizations pleading for donations. After a group of musicians heard their call, they decided to put on a show which quickly grew to become a big music festival in the hopes of raising as much money as they can. Now, GOODLUCK, Rubber Duc, Majozi, Jo Black, Roan van As, Dawie de Jager and a few other special performers will be performing live at the Voortrekker Monument in Pretoria on the 25th of June. Proceeds from ticket sales will be split amongst three charities: The Gift of the Givers Foundation, the largest disaster response NGO of African origin on the African continent, The Knysna Animal Welfare Society and iTickets #SAVEKNYSNA Disaster Fund. Early bird tickets are now on sale at just R80 before increasing to R120 and R150 at the door. However, should you wish to donate more money, you can pick an amount before checking out. Unfortunately, some vendors aren t able to donate all of the proceeds to charity and there are costs involved. So, besides money, the organizers are also looking for food vendors to participate at the event (and even donate some of their proceeds), kids entertainment, printing of posters, accommodation for four people on the 25th of June, T-shirt printing for staff, various raffle prizes and a music company to sponsor the backline for the performers on the day. Should you be able to help in any of the above areas, please email iheartknysna@gmail.com. Event Details: Date: Sunday 25 June Venue: Voortrekker Monument, Pretoria Gates Open: 10:30 First Act: 12:00 Tickets: R120 R150 (R80 early bird). Buy here: https://itickets.co.za/events/382199 Brought to you by People Magazine For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.