The SA Communist Party (SACP) in North West wants the ANC to reverse the decision to fire its provincial secretary Madoda Sambatha from the MEC position, the party said on Monday. We will be engaging the ANC to ensure that they reverse the decision on dismissal of Comrade Sambatha from Exco [Executive Council]. We will also engage the rest of the alliance structures regarding our position, said provincial spokesperson Smuts Matshe. North West premier Supra Mahumapelo fired Sambatha as Public Works and Roads MEC on June 1, on charges relating to the illegally sale of state land. Matshe said politics in North West have been defined by personality cult and manipulation of processes aimed at self-serving interests. The province has reached the highest possible level of factionalism where the democratic movement appears to be have been replaced by a very powerful faction. Nominations to public office is being done along factional lines and in return public representatives are compelled to always serve the agenda of a faction He said the dismissal of the outspoken secretary was planned immediately after his appointment in 2014. It is public knowledge that the process to get rid of Comrade Sambatha at some stage involved a planned investigation by the former Hawks head, General Berning Ntlemeza. The initiative was part of a national plan to discredit and deal with communists with Sambatha being the first target. It is interesting that Comrade Sambatha is dismissal shortly after the court has ruled on General Ntlemeza s appointment hence this route of false accusation. In May last year there were reports that the Hawks were targeting SACP members, with Sambatha being the first target. Matshe dismissed reasons given to fire Sambatha as dishonest and misleading. The fact is that Comrade Sambatha never sold any land as suggested by the ANC and the premier. Instead, the issue is more around rezoning of a property that was bought whilst Comrade Sambatha [at that time] was working for the National Union of Mineworkers. It would therefore not be possible for Comrade Sambatha to sell land whilst he is outside government organising Mineworkers. Comrade Sambatha signed for a transaction to stop the department of public works to pay property rates for a property that is owned by a private individual. He said the SACP supports a principle that an ANC deputy president should be the president, in this case, Cyril Ramaphosa to lead the ANC after the national conference in December. A section in the ANC wants former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to succeed Jacob Zuma as the president of the ANC, while Cosatu and SACP wanted Ramaphosa. The African National Congress Women s Leagues (ANCWL) in North West on Sunday endorsed Dlamini-Zuma as their preferred candidate. ANCWL deputy president Sesi Ntombela told the conference in Broederstroom near Brits that it was the turn for a woman to lead the ANC. ANCWL North West branch, dismissed claims that Sambatha was axed following SACP pronouncement on their preferred leader of of ANC. The divisive narration that Cde Sambatha was released due to the SACP Moses Kotane province [North West] pronouncement on their preferred ANC leadership candidate for 2017 are malicious and sheer signs of degenerating political ideology, said provincial secretary Bridgette Mogakwe.