Cancer 22 June 23 July Hey, crabs, are you running on empty? Strive to get the ratio right between being on top of things at work, while still having time to reflect and recharge your batteries. Balance is the key Leo 24 July 23 August Channelling your fiery energy into professional projects brings benefits today. But don t upset others by being too bossy or unpredictable. Do your best to be a charming and cooperative cat Virgo 24 August 23 September You re in the mood to converse with friends and colleagues about a wide range of topics. If you can keep your tendency to criticise others under control, then you ll have a delightful day Libra 24 September 23 October Relationships are acting as a mirror. If you feel tense and misunderstood, then that s what you ll get back from loved ones. So relax and search within to find the answers you are looking for. Scorpio 24 October 22 November The pace of life picks up as you juggle a wide range of diverse activities. It s the perfect day to put on your detective cap and solve a mystery or work out the solution to a perplexing problem. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Most communication problems arise from a lack of meaningful connection. Today, Mercury encourages you to talk through issues with a loved one to understand things from their perspective. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Under the influence of peacemaker Venus, it s time to swallow your pride and meet a child, teenager or friend halfway. With compromise on both sides you can get things back on track again. Aquarius 21 January 19 February The stars boost your intuition and your creativity today. So it s a terrific time to connect with the creative muse within. Plus, tune into the thoughts and feelings of others, both in person and online. Pisces 20 February 20 March Your creativity and intuition are firing today, fish. But if your inner voice tells you something, or someone, is not the real deal, then make sure you act on that important information. Aries 21 March 20 April The stars activate your communication zone today, rams. Time to socialise with family members, friends and neighbours as you participate in some lively and stimulating conversations. Taurus 21 April 21 May You ve got a good business brain and money matters are on your mind. So it s time to talk about finances with a cash-savvy friend, or read up on how to manage your resources more wisely. Gemini 22 May &#8211; 21 June Smart communication is the secret to a satisfying day. You ll find the more you network and mingle with influential people, the more tips you ll pick up and the more successful you ll be.