It s never easy to win three races in a row but Effort less Reward has lived up to her name in her last two starts and could deliver the goods again in Race 7 on the Inside track at the Vaal tomorrow, a FM 89 Handicap over 1000m. Louis Goosen s charge was giv en a short rest from 14 February to 11 May and the break has stood her in excellent stead. She returned to action in a race over the Vaal Inside 1000m and made every post a winning one, coming home 3.20 lengths clear of Gratuity, unfancied at 12-1. Fourth place that day went to Burgundy Rose, who came out next time to also beat Gratuity over the same course and distance. Effortless Reward defied a seven-point penalty over the Turf fontein Standside 1000m last time out with another good win. She did it tough that day, disput ing the lead with Hashtag Strat (runner-up again next time and then third in the Durban Dash at Greyville on Saturday) from the off before edging ahead to win by 0.40 lengths. Handicappers pushed her mer it rating up another two points and she carries 60kg, including jockey Gunter Wrogemann, but in her current form she could again rise to the occasion. Candice Dawson-trained Jame son Girl bit off more than she could chew at this stage of her ca reer in the Camellia Stakes over 1160m at Turffontein last month, when seventh behind Joan Rang er. Just Vogue was a neck ahead of her but is 7kg worse off. The Jay Peg three-year-old has scope for improvement in her sev enth start and must rate a danger with only 52kg to carry. She had not finished unplaced before that with her form includ ing a facile 1000m win over Fash ion Blast on the Vaal Outside track in December and a second to Free ly Forever (won again next time) over 1000m at Turffontein. Then sent over 1450m, she finished a distant fourth. She will be sharper for that Camellia Stakes run and could be the one for Swingers and Exactas. Bondiblu and Dalley look set to fight out Race 4, a Middle Stakes for fillies and mares over 2400m. Bondiblu is ultra-consistent and got just reward for finishing thereabouts six times running with a 2000m win over Peg O My Heart on this track. She is as ef fective over this 400m longer trip and has enough time in the back straight for jockey JP van der Mer we to overcome No 15 draw. Dalley has done well in her two starts over long distance, finish ing fourth and second in 2600m races at Turffontein.