With Russell Domingo not re-applying for his Proteas coaching post, the national cricket team will have a new mentor by September. According to Cricbuzz, five prominent candidates have thrown their hat into the ring. A five-man panel formed by Cricket South Africa (CSA) &#8211; which includes former Proteas coaches Eric Simons and Gary Kirsten &#8211; to screen the candidates have already concluded their interviews with the shortlisted men. Their recommendation will be presented to CSA&#8217;s board in the third week of July. But who exactly are the men that were reportedly interviewed? Geoff Toyana The Highveld Lions coach needs little introduction. He would be the popular choice for local fans who enjoy his friendliness and believes his understanding of transformation would help South African cricket in the brave new world of formal quotas. The 43-year-old has been in charge at the Wanderers for five seasons and has won four trophies. Rob Walter The interesting thing about Walter is that he&#8217;s a link to the successful Graeme Smith-era, having been the Proteas&#8217; fielding and fitness coach. That means he&#8217;d certainly find favour with some of the senior men who are aiming for the World Cup in 2019 as their swansong. But Walter has in the process become a really accomplished head coach. He won four trophies in just three season with the Titans but has since had a season in New Zealand with Otago. That campaign didn&#8217;t go too well as Otago ended last in all 3 domestic competitions. Richard Pybus If experience was the defining requirement for the Proteas job, Pybus would nail down the position. The Englishman has been very successful in South Africa with Border and then the Titans. He&#8217;s had three stints with Pakistan during a volatile time at the turn of the century and recently concluded a three-year tenure with the West Indies as director of cricket. Pybus, who&#8217;s applied for the Proteas post before, was also involved with Bangladesh. Sound knowledge and firm ideas are hallmarks but there are question marks over his man management. Shukri Conrad The current coach of CSA&#8217;s academy is also well-known on the domestic circuit. After becoming head coach of the Lions at the start of the franchise era, Conrad moved to the Cobras and, after a slow start, eventually won three trophies with the Capetonians. Since being appointed in his current role in 2014, he&#8217;s exprienced mixed fortunes and recently had to swallow a poor South Africa A tour to England. Malibongwe Maketa The young coach of the Warriors seems to be following a similar path to Toyana. A mediocre first-class player, Maketa rose to prominence as Titans assistant to the very successful Englishman Matthew Maynard. He enjoyed further success at Northerns and was promoted the Warriors in 2014. Despite not winning any trophies last season, Maketa guided his side to two one-day finals. Smart money, however, would be on him becoming a Proteas assistant. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.