Wonder Woman is a glorious superhero movie. It s a fun, rollicking spin into a franchise that hasn t received the same attention as so many DC and Marvel Universe characters. On top of that, the central character is a woman with a female director leading this incredibly jovial film into public consciousness. If you find yourself in the queue this weekend deciding between this and any other film, can I suggest you pluck up the courage and proudly say one ticket for Wonder Woman, please . A lot of Wonder Woman s success is thanks to Gal Gadot who brings to life the Amazonian heroine who has been a cornerstone of the American comic book industry. It s not an easy task because except for essentially reviving the character, Wonder Woman needed serious modernisation, something Gadot pulls off easily. Thankfully, it s also an origin story of sorts ensuring that a new audience gets introduced and invested in what can become quite a deft new franchise. It starts off with Diana Prince working in the Louvre Museum where she recalls her childhood in Themyscira. There she was taught to fight. The Amazons have lived on the island to escape the evils of humanity, and they are unaware of World War I raging on in the real world. When Trevor (Chris Pine) crash lands on the island, he also brings dozens of German soldiers with him, and, of course, the Amazons attack. The emotive fight scene is striking, beautiful and brutal as Amazonsians are culled by soldiers. It again reminds us why wars are such unnecessary folly that serve no purpose other than to harm us. Wonder Woman, of course, escapes with Trevor to Britain in the midst of a raging war. As it turns out she will become a central part in the war and there s a bit of a love story just to mix things up. Wonder Woman succeeds in being a good mouthpiece, speaking out against human atrocities without glorifying them. Action and superhero romps so often fetishise violence, but here it feels different. It s saying violence happens but look at the consequences. ALSO READ: Separate, but not equal For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.