The mouth is an important part of the body.In the mouth there are teeth that help us do several things including a nice smile and eating food.Everyone has a smile that is different from anyone else s and that makes us special.You rarely miss watching Television programmes with adverts that show children talking and showing strength with their mouth devoid of teeth cavity.Because of this, many parents are advised to teach children the importance of taking care of their teeth from young age and ensure they do not contract dental diseases when they grow up.Speaking to Young Citizen, children have expressed their views on the importance of dental hygiene.Samira Rashid is a Grade Seven pupil at St Francis she says teeth are just as important parts of the body as ears, eyes and nose and we use our teeth all day long. My parents taught me to brush my teeth at least twice a day when I was very young and that s why there s no cavity, says Samira.It s important for children to know how to brush their teeth every day because it is a proper oral hygiene routine early in life.Pamela Michael says her parents are her role models. They were key in setting a daily routine and constantly reminding us if we had forgotten to brush our teeth, she says.Abdrazak Yusuph is a Grade Six pupil at East Africa School, he remembers when his teeth started to ache and it had to be removed and since then he brushes his teeth regularly. It is important to take good care of our teeth and in so doing; our dental formula will be good health. Tooth ache can be really painful, he says.Milicent Robert is also a Grade Five at St Mary Primary School she believes it is important to brush teeth with tooth paste every day because it makes teeth clean and strong. I always brush my teeth and I advise other children to make sure that they take care of their teeth all the time because if they don t, they will get infected with dental diseases, said Milicent.Dr John Mkisi is a dentist said Primary teeth start to grow in children from the age of six months. The primary dentition is complete by approximately two and a half years of age.Primary teeth are essential tools, both for chewing and learning to talk. Primary teeth should be brushed by parents twice a day from the first tooth onwards. Parents should re-brush thoroughly after the child has brushed first. From 6 years children have the ability to brush their teeth alone twice daily. However, parents must supervise the tooth brushing exercise until the age of 12 and check on the condition of the toothbrush. A worn out toothbrush cannot take out all the dirt in the cavity, he says.