A number of horses have managed to win the first two legs of the Winter Series in Cape Town but only one horse has managed to claim the R250,000 bonus for winning all three and that is Pocket Power. Marinaresco may very well have done it last year had he stayed in the Cape but his connections opted to take him to Durban to contest the Vodacom Durban July instead. He ran second and had a better payday, taking home R800,000 for his efforts. However, this year African Night Sky can emulate the great Pocket Power and claim the bonus. There is a lot to like about the way he has won the first two legs and there appears to be no reason as to why he should not see out the 2400m of the Grade 3 Highlands Stud Winter Derby at Kenilworth tomorrow. He ran on well to win both the Guineas and the Classic and the manner of his last win gave the impression the son of Dynasty would benefit from the extra distance. Ironically it was Bernard Fayd Herbe who rode Pocket Power to victory and he will be aboard African Night Sky for the Justin Snaith yard. There is, of course, the issue as to whether the opposition will stay 2400m. Newlands is the highest rated runner and but was well beaten by African Night Sky in the Winter Guineas. He ran a 2.60-length fourth to Edict Of Nantes in the Grade 1 Investec Cape Derby but that was a very slowly run race and would have suited Joey Ramsden s charge. Nevertheless, Anton Marcus has made the trip to Cape Town to ride him and Newlands needs to be respected. Our Mate Art has run second in both the Winter Guineas and Winter Classic and although he got closer last time, mainly due to a 1kg turnaround in his favour, African Night Sky was going away once he hit the front. Loadshedder finished third in both the Classic and the Derby but there appears no guarantee Andre Nel s runner will be any better over this distance. He was beaten 2.50 lengths over 1800m and meets Snaith s charge at the same weights. There are a number of other features on the card which look competitive but keep on eye on Silver Coin in Race 5, the Listed Highlands Stud Langerman over 1500m. He is an impressive looker who won with authority on debut and can only get better. Marcus rides and from gate No 3 they could be very hard to beat. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.