Gemini 22 May-21 June Expect some domestic dramas this weekend, Twins, as hasty words or thoughtless actions put a loved one offside. And is it time to freshen up your friendships with a lively new crowd? Cancer 22 June 23 July Some conversations will be emotional and fiery this weekend as Mars stirs up a personal issue. For some lucky singles, a platonic relationship could gradually transform into love. Leo 24 July 23 Aug You re in the mood to study and learn but avoid jumping to half-baked conclusions this weekend. Don t take immediate action. Instead, think things through before you make a major move. Virgo 24 August 23 September If you re having problems with a client or colleague, try a more creative approach. With the Moon and Saturn triggering your domestic zone, it s time to focus on family members this weekend. Libra 24 September 23 October Be careful in the way you communicate with others this weekend. If you jump to conclusions, expect some serious consequences as Saturn tests your ability to be firm and focused. Scorpio 24 October- 22 November You re in a hurry to get things done this weekend, as your Scorpio defences go up and your patience goes down. So try to be more objective, especially when it comes to family and friends. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Don t be too hasty this weekend. If you jump to conclusions, then you could find yourself with egg on your Sagittarian face. Serious Saturn cautions you to be much more circumspect. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Capricorns are very discreet. And you re feeling more mysterious than usual,as you ferret out secrets and keep mum about confidences. Friendships and hobbies are favoured this weekend. Aquarius 21 January- 19 February With proactive Mars visiting your wellbeing zone, focus on improving your health and fitness. But it will only work if you choose an eating plan and exercise routine that is flexible, fast and fun. Pisces 20 February- 20 March Don t allow yourself to be taken up the primrose path to trouble by a professional colleague. Plus avoid making sudden financial decisions. Take the time to think things through properly. Aries 21 March 20 April With the Moon moving into speedy Aries, you re keen to make a snappy personal decision especially involving an emotional issue. But avoid being too hot-headed and hasty with others. Taurus 21 April 21 May When it comes to an intimate relationship or a financial partnership, communication will be tricky as you feel frustrated about a person or situation. Try not to make mountains out of molehills!