Following President Jacob Zuma s visit to some of the Knysna fire disaster areas on Thursday, Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said she thought the president, on a personal level, was empathetic and charming . She has always maintained this opinion of the man, having called him charming years ago as well. Zuma and Zille were accompanied to the area ravaged by fires fanned by gale-force winds last week by Cooperative Governance Minister Des van Rooyen, DA provincial leader Bonginkosi Madikizela as well as other officials. The premier explained to Zuma the extent of the disaster, which resulted in 10 000 people being evacuated from their homes and several people killed. They started their site visits in Knysna Heights and later moved to White Location and other affected areas. Zille who faced public backlash earlier this week after her apology for her alleged racist tweets in March defending aspects of colonialism s legacy took to Twitter stating: As we walked through the ash and ruins he [Zuma] asked me how I was bearing up personally. At a personal level, the Prez is empathetic and charming.As we walked through the ash and ruins he asked me how I was bearing up personally. https://t.co/KYssFDwGpO &mdash; Helen Zille (@helenzille) June 15, 2017 According to a political settlement announced on Tuesday, meant to put to rest the public spat between Zille and party leader Mmusi Maimane over the tweets, the former DA leader agreed to step down from all positions within the party as sanction, though she remains in her government position as premier until her term ends in 2019. Zille and Zuma were both well received by residents in the fire-affected areas. Some residents danced and sang with her. Zille said the experience was totally heart-warming. The second-best moment of the last three months. The best was the birth of my grand-daughter, she said in a later tweet. Totally heart-warming. The second-best moment of the last three months. The best was the birth of my grand-daughter https://t.co/hXfFCBcFGU &mdash; Helen Zille (@helenzille) June 15, 2017 The premier has encouraged citizens to visit the annual Oyster Festival in Knysna next month to help rebuild the area s economy. The Western Cape government on Wednesday said it would release R75 million in emergency funding to assist with the damage in Knysna and other surrounding areas. The best thing you can do for Knysna is to get its economy on its feet. Visit the Oyster Festival starting 7 July. All systems go. It is ON! &mdash; Helen Zille (@helenzille) June 14, 2017 ALSO READ: Update: Zuma arrives in Garden Route as farmers struggle with aftermath of fires &nbsp;