A concession card required to be carried for Muslim pupils at Northcliff High School in Johannesburg has outraged a parent and caused a storm on social media. But the school principal cited this as a requirement for any pupil who wishes to alter their school uniform for their own reasons. However, he has since backtracked on this position. A furious parent on Monday posted a picture showing that her daughter needed to carry the school s concession card to wear her headscarf. She likened this to carrying around the discriminatory dompas required to be carried for black South Africans under apartheid law. Wtf our daughters must now carry concession cards to wear their head scarves at a public High School. How is this different from the Dompas Black South Africans had to carry in the past. #NorthCliffHigh I&#8217;m am not going to accept this, the mother posted. . The concession card with the pupil&#8217;s name blurred out. Can we please help and advise as our girl wants take on this fight with our support, she asked under the comments section. School Headmaster Walter Essex-Clarke initially stated the concession card was a requirement not only for Muslim children attending the facility. He told The Citizen that where parents had requested a variation in school uniform of any kind, a card was issued to children to cut out the the admin for any teacher querying the alteration of attire. This included not having to shave or having long hair required for a role in a play, for example. It could even be a request to wear takkies because of health reasons. We then grant permission, Essex-Clarke said. It is not in our interests to discriminate against anyone. It is applied to all the children. If anybody is offended let us know, and you won t need the card. He said the concession card system had been used for years when it came to exceptions to the uniform. He said that if parents were offended, or felt the card alienated their children, the school was willing engage with them to amend the requirement. If that s how they feel, we are prepared to change anything going forward. It s not our intention to offend anyone. We have a lovely group of kids here. I would like to sit and talk to the parents they guide me. MEC Panyaza Lesufi said his department had contacted the principal who had subsequently agreed to withdraw the concession card. The department explained to him &#8220;how negative and divisive it now reflects in the public eye&#8221;. The South African Human Rights Commission said it would comment later.