Socialite Khanyi Mbau has opened up about her past relationship with then wealthy businessman Mandla Mthembu in an interview with Anele Mdoda. Mthembu and Mbau s relationship set tongues wagging, mostly because of their age gap and Mthembu s financial status. The couple were regularly seen in Joburg streets in matching yellow Lamborghinis. Mbau told Mdoda though some may say she always chased after money, it was the other way round. &#8220;I have a relationship with money. I just think money recognises me, money is comfortable around me, money likes me, money feels like when it needs someone to talk to, it will choose me in the crowd, and it will come and sit next to me, whether it comes in a form of whatever, but it will choose me,&#8221; she said. On her relationship with Mthembu, the two met when she was 19 years old at Divine Lounge. She walked in with her friend and made an entrance that got attention from Mthembu, who then approached her and told her he would marry her. Six months later, the two bumped into each other again at Beverley Hills hotel when they were checking out. There was no car to take her to the airport so Mthembu offered her his Porsche and told her he would get it at the airport. &#8220;I thought he was joking. He said: &#8216;I remember you, and I&#8217;m still going to marry you,'&#8221; and asked for her number, which she gave him. At the time, she said she was not aware that he was loaded. What followed was three months of breakfast and a pair of expensive shoes to accompany it, something that made her realise he had money. The two dated for some time before having sex, apparently because Mthembu kept saying he did not want to rush things, as he wanted to marry her. This until he told her he would do anything to &#8220;make love&#8221; to her. She said she agreed because he had done so many things for her and felt it was the only way to thank him for it. But she feels what they had was not a relationship, as Mthembu was living his 22-year-old life through her, as he went to prison at that age. She had found a father figure in Mthembu, as he supported her in everything, something she never got from her father, who only gave her money. Though the relationship lasted, the two never had real conversations, and if they did, Mbau does not remember what they were about. &#8220;All I remember was us deciding on colour, where to eat, cars, arguing not being in the same car because we did not like the same music. There was no heart-to-heart conversation, apart from discussing having a baby.&#8221; The two have a daughter together. At 32, Mbau said she would never date a 22-year-old because she feels the conversation would never be the same. &#8220;Mandla was 30 years older than me, what did he possibly think he would get out of me?&#8221; He was, however, a great guy to have a conversation with. She said. &#8220;I enjoyed being around him, but I realised I was worshipping him, not loving him.&#8221; Also read: How the Bible inspired Khanyi Mbau to do cosmetic surgery