Dar es Salaam. Experts have called on the government to focus on increasing funding for development projects in the 2017/18 budget.They were speaking ahead of Finance and Planning minister Philip Mpango s budget presentation today.This comes at a time when the government has released only a small fraction of the development budget that was approved during the 2016/17 budget.Unveiling the 2017/2018 budget framework to Members of Parliament in Dodoma ahead of the starting of the ongoing budget meeting, Dr Mpango told Members of Parliament among other issues, that the government has so far released 34 per cent of the development budget for the financial year 2016/2017.But speaking in separate interviews, the experts were of the view that the budget should focus on components that will empower the government s vision of becoming an industrialised country by 2020 and ultimately a middle income.Prof Cuthbert Kimambo, the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) deputy vice chancellor (research), told BusinessWeek that the government should focus on priority projects including infrastructure and shifting its seat to Dodoma.He said the government s vision is to become an industrialisedcountry would be possible if clean water supply becomes reliable. Infrastructure, transport and communications should be improved because they are vital for industrialisation. Water is vital for running industries and the governmentshould put more emphasis in this year s budget than in previous years to ensure that water is adequate countrywide. Other areas that the government should also focus on are health and education, he said.That is important taking into consideration the fact those sectors as healthy and educated people can play a crucial role in industrialisation. He explained that although the government had been providing free primary and secondary education, the budget should be scaled up to produce skilled workforce.Moreover, since factories need inputs from agriculture,electricity and minerals, it is important to boost such sectors.Meanwhile, the UDSM director of research, Prof Shukrani Manya, would like the budget to focus on ordinary citizens. That can be done by improving social services such as water, health education and energy. The governments should also fund research and development. Research is vital for development although it is not taken seriously in the country. According to Prof Manya, the government only allocates 1 per cent of its GDP to research. Nevertheless the money has never been disbursed fully over the years, curtailing research that could have brought about change.The university s deputy director research, Dr Liberato Haule, also agrees that it important for the government to prioritise funding development projects in the coming budget.He noted that the government also needs to set aside funds for projects that will create employment, increase people s incomes and ultimately government revenues.He noted that the government should also empower marginalised groups such as women and the youth. The government needs to focus on this aspect as it is vital in pushing its agenda for industrialisation. Tanzania has identified key development projects for the fiscal year 2017 2018, which are deemed critical as their implementation has significant multiplier effects to the economy.This is indicated in the Guidelines for the Preparation of Plans and Budget for 2017 2018, issued by Tanzania s Ministry of Finance in November 2016.