A police officer moves to search a hijacked building as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A police officer kicks down a door during a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula stands with police officers before speaking with members of the public after a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by the minister to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula stands with police officers after speaking with members of the public after a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by the minister to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A police officer holds down a man suspected of robbery as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. The main was later released. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A police officer searches the vehicle of a man suspected of robbery as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. The main was later released. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A police officer forcefully restrains a man suspected of robbery after he attempted to flee - as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. The main was later released. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Police officers sieze generators that are suspected of being stolen during a raid on a hijacked building as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Police officers sieze generators that are suspected of being stolen during a raid on a hijacked building as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Police officers question residents during a raid on a hijacked building as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Police officers stand with confiscated goods while local residents watch after a raid on a hijacked building as part of a raid on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The raids were part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Abdul Jamal stands in front of the hijacked building that was his home, on Nugget Street in Johannesburg on 23 June 2017. The building was raided as part of a drive by Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula's visit to gain an appreciation for the Operational Command Centre. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia