The City of Tshwane s council has officially appointed Umar Banda to be the city s chief financial officer (CFO) from August following a unanimous nomination on Thursday. Banda has been acting as the city s finance head after its CFO, Andile Dyakala, was sacked in 2014 for his alleged involvement in an irregular printing tender. At a special council meeting held on Thursday, the council nominated six candidates for strategic management positions that would report directly to the city manager, Moeketsi Mosola. Council members debated on their rightful role in the selection of the candidates, arguing it was solely Mosola s duty, since they would report directly to him. But MMC for corporate and shared services Cilliers Brink explained that council had approved a macro structure, which identified those who would report to the city manager. According to section 56, municipal council, after consultation with the city manager, appointments of senior managers is responsible by council. That is why we are here, he said. Other top management posts that would be occupied effective from August 1 include chief operations officer James Murphy, governance and support officer Lorette Tredoux, chief of emergency Previn Govender, chief audit executive Phillip Moeketsi Ntsimane, group head: group communication and marketing Hilgard Matthews, and group head: city strategy and organisational performance Nosipho Hlatshwayo. The council also proposed that a post for the position of metro police chief be advertised following the resignation of former metro police chief Steven Ngobeni. But mayoral spokesperson Sam Mgobozi told The Citizen that the process would be handed over to the human resource department to follow the relevant processes. Mayor Solly Msimanga, in absentia, said the positions were critical for his administration to achieve their objective over the next five years. The filling of the positions is critical to ensure stability and enhance service delivery in the organisation, he said. &#8211; rorisangk@citizen.co.za