All Night Flight is holding form well and will give his supporters another good run for their money in Race 7 on the Vaal Outside track today, a MR 80 Handicap over 1000m. Roy Magner s charge has been placed in his last six starts, including finishing a 4.30-length third behind Isphan over 1000m in his penultimate start. Fourth-placed Gimmethemoney came out next time to place again. All Night Flight then ran a 1.20-length fourth behind Effortless Reward, who franked the form with a win next time, over the distance at Turffontein, where Alpine Glacier was 0.20 lengths ahead of him in third place. Alpine Glacier is 0.5kg worse off and punters should take into account that Muzi Yeni did not ride All Night Flight out strenuously, having felt something amiss. Keagan de Melo takes over in the saddle and All Night Flight should turn the tables on Alpine Glacier. Tandava, a four-time winner in Zimbabwe, made an exciting South African debut when downing Flag Of France by 2.40 lengths over 1000m this month. Gokhan Terzi s charge has been raised seven points in the handicap for that win so meets Stark, a three-length third, on 3.5kg worse terms. However, that was his first run since 20 November last year and Tandava looks likely to improve. He has Collen Storey aboard again. Leon Erasmus-trained Magic was most disappointing behind Effortless Reward last time out but that was his first run after a layoff and the gelding would have needed that run. He has masses of scope for improvement and on the form of a race won by Ronnie Rocket in February, there is not much to choose between Sherman Brown s mount and Alpine Glacier. Only 0.20 lengths separated them in that 1000m sprint and Alpine Glacier, who was ridden by an apprentice claiming 4kg at that time, is 6kg worse off. Nitro Charge finished seventh behind Tandava but only 3.75 lengths back and meets his rival on 4.5kg better terms. That should not be enough to reverse the decision over this distance, but Nitro Charge has only run four times and has the most scope for improvement. There are a number of first-timers in Race 3 over 1200m but Frederico s Dream is sure to improve on her promising debut this month, when narrowly beaten by Let It Flow. She should make her previous experience count and looks a banker in the opening leg of the Pick 6. Those looking for a bit of value to close off the meeting should not go too far wrong if they side with Snow In Seattle in Race 8 over 1200m. He finished second to Moshav over the course and distance this month and the form of that race is looking good. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.