Political disagreements resulted in the dismissal of SA Communist Party North West secretary Madoda Sambatha as Member of the Executive Council (MEC) for Public Works and Roads, he said on Thursday. The issue is political purging is continuing, he told reporters in Klerksdorp, giving his version of events following his axing on June 1. My removal will not be understood if looked at an isolated incident. I have been pigeonholed in my capacity as SACP North West province secretary, as a representative not only of party s steadfast opposition to the decay but also of all others who are seen to be standing on its way. He said relations between the SACP and the African National Congress worsened after the alliance summit. The ANC leadership was not happy with the SACP presentation at the alliance summit, and turn it to be my personal presentation, further more there was disagreement between the SACP and the premier s State of the Province address on the economic or employment contribution of Guptas the mining sector especially in Matlosana, he said. He said he served under difficult condition during his time in the executive council but, he carries no grudge. I have serve in very hostile condition, where officials have powers more than the MEC I am a member of the ANC who have served with loyalty more than those who want to see me out of the ANC. North West premier Supra Mahumapelo fired Sambatha on a charge relating to illegal sale of government land in Mahikeng. He allegedly signed off the land in November 2016. Sambatha denied that he had sold land, he explained that an allegation was fabricated and conveyed to ANC national officers that he had sold a portion of land illegally. I have nothing but contempt for lying .Government s own records and official documents clearly show that the land was in question, No: 2007/248203/23 was sold for R76,440 and it was bought before I was appointed MEC. In the document they submitted to the national officials [of the ANC] just the first two pages are fabrication. Page 1 is Madoda Sambatha and the second page is Raymond Elisha with 2014 signature. And in the same document at the office of the lawyer responsible for transfer of land, both page 1 and 2 is Madoda Sambatha and 2016 signature. In the same document they submitted there is a letter from the municipality [Mahikeng] through the municipal manager, my office nor me has never seen this letter He said the land he was alleged to have sold was for rezoning. The outspoken SACP leader said he would returned to the executive council if the ANC reverse its decision to expel him, following the SACP request at the weekend. The SACP in North West on Sunday said it would engage the ANC to ensure that they reverse the decision to dismissed Sambatha. The province has reached the highest possible level of factionalism where the democratic movement appears to be have been replaced by a very powerful faction. Nominations to public office is being done along factional lines and in return public representatives are compelled to always serve the agenda of a faction the party said in a statement. Sambatha said he believed he was removed to create a space for someone in the provincial legislature but, he refused to resigned as a member of the provincial legislature. Social media reports were circulating that the deputy speaker of the North West legislature Jane Manganyi would be removed from her position and deployed to the national assembly possibly to take the seat left vacant when Brian Molefe left parliament and return to Eskom. Meanwhile, the Forum 4 Service Delivery has challenged Mahumapelo to open a criminal case against Sambatha at the nearest police station. Failure for the premier to report this case timeously amounts to defeating the ends of justice and depicts that one is party to the matter, said national leader Mbahare Kekana.