The 2017 Hyundai IONIQ has been crowned with a 2017 Green Good Design Award that celebrates important examples of sustainable designs and provides awareness on what companies are designing and producing to have the most positive impact on the environment. The Green Good Design Award is a development from Good Design, which was founded in Chicago in 1950 by Eero Saarinen, Charles and Ray Eames, and Edgar Kaufmann, Jr. to promote and foster a greater public understanding and acceptance for Modern Design. Recently the European Centre for Architecture Art Design and Urban Studies and The Chicago Athenaeum: Museum of Architecture and Design have joined forces on two continents to present the innovative and challenging new public programme, called Green Good Design. Hyundai Motor is committed to progressing the future of eco-friendly driving and the IONIQ is just the beginning, said Chris Chapman, chief designer at the Hyundai Design Centre. The future-focused character of the IONIQ, along with its innovative use of recycled and ecologically-sensitive materials, has made the IONIQ the most fuel-efficient vehicle and a leader in the environmentally friendly vehicle space. The criteria for the 2017 Green Good Design Award are products or buildings that have been designed or by any person or institution who has made a significant contribution to sustainability locally, nationally or internationally, or any government or local government who has implemented a sustainability plan. As with The Good Design ethos, everything and anything is considered in The Green Good Design Awards. For 2017, a 100 designs from 23 nations were awarded Green Good Design Awards. The thoughtful and innovative work by Hyundai Motor s design teams helped the IONIQ become recognised as one of the best ecological and sustainable designs in transportation for 2017. The IONIQ is the first eco-vehicle in the world to offer three distinct electrified powertrains on a single, dedicated vehicle platform the IONIQ Hybrid, Plug-in Hybrid and Electric models. Hyundai Motor s IONIQ lineup calls upon two key factors, efficiency and technology, in its design, which combine to create both a unique and forward-looking appearance. Throughout the entire development phase, engineers and designers worked closely to ensure that form and function evolved simultaneously in a complementary fashion. Distinguished exterior design sets IONIQ apart from its competitors as advanced technologies are integrated with the overall design. IONIQ Hybrid is the most fuel-efficient vehicle and the IONIQ Electric is the most efficient electric vehicle in the US market.