After the date for the massive Back 2 The Old Skool music festival was changed three times, from April 8, to April 27 and then June 3, and the venue changed twice, from the Wanderers Club to Huddle Park Gold and Recreation in Linksfield, the concert turned out to be a catastrophe. Fans who claimed their money back after the first concert didn t happen must have been glad about the decision they made, while those who kept the tickets found themselves frustrated at the venue, where there was no sight of any of the artists mentioned on the enormous line-up. The four stages were set up, vendors were put in place, food and drinks prepared, and security guards stood ready to receive the masses of old-school music fans, only for the crowd that enthusiastically made their way to the venue from all across South Africa, having driven from as far as Polokwane, Mahikeng and Bloemfontein, to be told three hours after the festival&#8217;s starting time that the concert had been cancelled, with none of the organisers explaining precisely why. The unhappy crowd that was scattered all over the recreation centre, left frustrated and fuming about having their time, money and petrol wasted. They heard the sound of golf balls being hit by the golfers at the site, without a single song from any of their favourite artists. Fans have gone on social media to voice their anguish, with some mentioning that the international brand would never enjoy their support again. We apologise to all ticket holders for the disappointment, said the event promoter for Global Event Entertainment, Deon Mama, explaining that the international and local artists were ready to perform as scheduled, but the event had to be cancelled due to technical operational clearances not being given by the municipality. Slum Village member Young RJ wrote on Facebook: Just received a call saying the show was cancelled due to failure to secure a permit for the crowd capacity. I&#8217;m looking forward to coming back to South Africa to perform for all my fans real soon. I want to thank Johannesburg and the promoter for treating us first class.&#8221; The hip-hop group from Conant Gardens, Detroit, Michigan, was one of the international acts meant to perform at the festival. The organisers say ticket holders can get full refunds from Computicket.