A man who took a fist swipe at his niece, whilst she was carrying her baby in her arms, but hit the baby instead, was jailed for three months. Ashwin James, 31, of Elsies River in Cape Town s northern suburbs, appeared in the Parow Regional Court, before magistrate Constance Nziweni on Wednesday. The incident happened on April 2 last year, in a home in Bishop Lavis on the Cape Flats. James and his niece had an argument, and in the heat of it he threw a punch at her, but punched the baby in the face instead. James in fact faced a charge of assault with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm, but pleaded guilty to the less serious offence of common assault, which prosecutor Daniel Cloete accepted. A photograph of the baby showed a bruise to his left cheek, but nothing more serious. The magistrate said the function of the court was not to take revenge on behalf of society, but to impose a sentence that was just and fair, made men with propensities for violence think twice before lifting their hand to women and children, and also reflected the revulsion of the communities for James behaviour. The magistrate agreed with the prosecutor that the case called for a prison sentence, as a message to the community that violence, especially towards women and children, would be severely punished. The court shuddered at what might have happened to the child, had the incident been more serious, the magistrate said. She said the courts had a duty to protect women and children from the violence wracking the country, and it would be a failure of duty for the court not to impose a jail sentence. The magistrate said James attack on his niece, whilst she had her baby in her arms, was totally reckless , especially as the child was only one year old and could have been seriously hurt. She said James would benefit from therapy in anger management, and warned that he could expect a much heavier sentence if convicted again of assault involving a small child. Neither the mother nor the child may be identified. James was also declared unfit to possess a firearm.