The African National Congress (ANC) has welcomed the decision by the South Gauteng High Court to dismiss with costs the application for summary judgment brought by Sihle Bolani, who had claimed she was not paid for work done on the 2016 local government election campaign. The ANC said the application was dismissed on Tuesday after the party had consistently maintained that the organisation had no relationship with Bolani, nor any knowledge of the so-called &#8216;black ops&#8217; also known as &#8216;the war room&#8217; campaign she claims she was involved in for the 2016 local government election. We are thus vindicated by this judgment and welcome the clarity it finally provides on the matter, the organisation said in a statement on Thursday. Since its establishment in 1912, the African National Congress has always depended on the just basis of its cause and the superiority of its ideals to build a united, nonracial, nonsexist, democratic and prosperous society to gain the support of our people for their own liberation. The ANC said that despite what was becoming habitual pessimism by some in society, independent research undertaken by the South African Institute of Race Relations told a good story that, among others, the number of black people with jobs had more than doubled, with African people employed moving from 4 980 000 in 1994 to 11 625,000 in 2015 under the ANC-led government. African professional employees increased by 176% since 2000, while the number of African management employees increased by 191%. Increases of a similar magnitude are true for coloured and Indian employees. The number of white management and professional employees has increased at a much slower rate, showing the extent to which racial transformation has taken place in the world of work, they said. The organisation said despite the depressed economic environment, the battle to create jobs, combat crime and corruption continued. It is this track record of success, commitment and superior ideas which the ANC relies on in every election to continue winning the hearts and minds of our people. It has never and will never be on the basis of some concerted black ops campaign that the ANC engages with our people. 