Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor has again taken to social media to share stories from the past, this time with one allegedly involving Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo. In a Facebook post, Mentor says that when she was chairperson of the public enterprises portfolio committee in Parliament in 2009, she was approached by &#8220;a certain French Nuclear company that also operates from South Africa&#8221;. She alleged that the company wanted to &#8220;buy&#8221; her, along with 10 people of her choice. The one half would consist of five members of her committee, while she was allowed to choose the other five from her family members. The company allegedly offered to fly the group first class to Paris to watch the French Open tennis tournament, and stay in a luxury hotel for 10 days if they wanted. Shopping was allegedly also on the cards. As tempting as the offer was, Mentor said she refused and told herself she would watch a great tennis tournament at her own expense &#8211; which she apparently did in 2014 by going to Wimbledon in London. Though she did not have other people who had been given the offer, she only mentioned the communications minister, alleging that she accepted it. &#8220;Why did Ayanda Dlodlo agree?&#8221; she asked. The minister was recently implicated in the #GuptaEmails, which detail her stay at the Oberoi Hotel in Dubai. Dlodlo confirmed the stay at the hotel, as shown in the emails, but said that though her booking had been secured by the Gupta-owned Sahara Computers, the hotel bills were settled by businessman and arms deal fixer Fana Hlongwane. The charges included a spa massage, room service, accommodation and car hire. Dlodlo, however, said the trip was for private business. I was actually on my way to Jordan, and I made a stopover in Dubai. Fana [Hlongwane] was there. All I know is that it was an arrangement between Fana and I, and that was it. I ve known Fana since I was a kid. We grew up in the same township, we are like family, and we come a long way, The Sowetan quoted Dlodlo as saying. Defending herself after the reports emerged, Dlodlo said she should be judged by her work that &#8220;speaks for itself&#8221;. Read more: Minister Dlodlo defends herself: Judge me by my work, it speaks for itself