But don t be fooled by the simplicity of the pronunciation, because things can become complicated when when there is no clear definition and communication of what exactly their roles are within a certain set-up. The klaas role will generally entail him reporting to the baas to receive instructions. This person is often burdened with doing the donkey work whether he is in construction or accounting, but unlike the baas, doesn t have to take ownership for the whole operation. Whereas the baas doesn t usually have to get his hands dirty, he is the one taking the eventual responsibility. Trust me, I ll get to my point. It was the news that Rassie Erasmus is reportedly heading back to fulfil a new role as the country s director of rugby that got me going on human relations-type definitions. In theory the new position can only add value. We have been whining forever that we lack a common philosophy in terms of a style of play and that we need one from junior level right through to the Springbok team. If Erasmus has been identified as the man to implement this grand vision, then his imminent appointment is a step in the right direction. But it is the new position s alignment with the Boks that leaves a lot of unanswered questions. First and foremost, it seems logical Coetzee will have to report to Erasmus. I suppose when your employer enforces restructuring of any sort in accordance to the labour law, you don t really have a leg to stand on, so Coetzee will have to accept the addition above him in the food chain or jump ship. What I m concerned about is who ll be calling the shots and who ll take the ultimate responsibility should the Boks not meet their goals. If they perform poorly, does Coetzee take the bullet and Erasmus live to hire another coach or will he get fired for Coetzee to carry on under a new man? Or let s say the team performs well and actually win something, who gets to bask in the glory? I will only make sense that the more responsibility Erasmus is given, the less Coetzee can be held accountable for the Boks results. Another thing that worries me are the rumours that Erasmus will be bringing back his right-hand man Jacques Nienaber, his defence coach at Munster in Ireland. I m not quite sure where he ll fit in, because the last time I checked Brendan Venter was the Bok defence coach. Should this be the case, we ll have Erasmus as the big kahuna, Coetzee as the Bok coach or whatever that will be called, Venter, Franco Smith, Matthew Proudfoot and Johann van Graan as his assistants, with Nienaber squeezed in somewhere, or worst, not being hands on at all, only to add his two cents on request. As soon as the base outnumber the klase, you have a recipe for disaster.