Lawyers for singer Kelly Khumalo have threatened legal action over a Sunday article last week that alleged her &#8220;new lover&#8221; was accused of soliciting bribes to play music on music show Live Amp. It was reported that the producer in question was accused of asking for money from artists to play their music. Sunday tabloids alleged that Sjula Dlamini was reportedly booted off SABC1&#8217;s Live Amp over these bribery claims. Dlamini, Live Amp s producer and a voiceover artist for Date My Family, was allegedly suspended after several artists complained he had demanded money from them in order to play their songs on the show, Sunday Sun reported. The producer, however, said though he was aware of the allegations against him, he had not been suspended but left the show for greener pastures . He told the publication he knew about someone who was using his name to ask people to pay him to play their music. The said person apparently even offered presenter positions on Live Amp. He said it should have been some artists under fire and not him, as they had tried to offer him money to play their music, though he would not name them. Urban Brew communication specialist Marvin Cohen could neither confirm nor deny Dlamini s suspension, but only said the man had moved to another production. In her lawyers&#8217; demands, Khumalo denied being in a relationship with Dlamini and could also not understand why she had been linked to Dlamini in reports, as his alleged misconduct had nothing to do with her. Her lawyers concluded the reason &#8220;her name was included was to create an impression that our client is in a relationship with a crook&#8221;. They demanded a retraction of the original story, and a full apology. The Citizen has taken down the original article, and updated it with this article. We apologise for any confusion that may have been caused in reporting on the allegation that had originally appeared in other media. The producer, however, said though he was aware of the allegations against him, he had not been suspended but left the show for greener pastures . He told the publication he knew about someone who was using his name to ask people to pay him to play their music. The said person apparently even offered presenter positions on Live Amp. He said it should have been some artists under fire and not him, as they had tried to offer him money to play their music, though he would not name them. Urban Brew communication specialist Marvin Cohen could neither confirm nor deny Dlamini s suspension, but only said the man had moved to another production. In her lawyers&#8217; demands, Khumalo denied being in a relationship with Dlamini and could also not understand why she had been linked to Dlamini in reports, as his alleged misconduct had nothing to do with her. Her lawyers concluded the reason &#8220;her name was included was to create an impression that our client is in a relationship with a crook&#8221;. They demanded a retraction of the original story, and a full apology. The Citizen has taken down the original article, and updated it with this article. We apologise for any confusion that may have been caused in reporting on the allegation that had originally appeared in other media.