A 19-year-old matriculant is in ICU after sustaining a stab wound while fighting off three boys who allegedly tried to rob him of his cellphone in Birchleigh, on the East Rand. According to Brandouw Holtzhausen s mother, Debbie, her son had an operation the same day to stitch his colon, which was damaged when he was stabbed in the stomach, Kempton Express reported. The incident happened at about 7.30am on Tuesday on the corner of Sering Street and Limba Avenue. The boys walked past me and another woman on Sering Street, and suddenly we saw them ganging up on this one boy near the corner of Limba Avenue. We started screaming and making noise until they stopped and ran away, said a domestic worker. A concerned resident said the three suspects and other troublesome schoolboys usually alight from vehicles on the R25 and wander around Impala Avenue and Sering Street instead of going to school. Debbie said: All we have been able to find out from him so far is that the three boys tried to rob him of his cellphone while he was waiting for his girlfriend. Neighbours, paramedics and private security officials raced to the scene to assist. Brandouw was treated by paramedics before he was rushed to hospital. We are very hurt as a family because this place has become very unsafe. I was hijacked at gunpoint twice just outside my yard between 2000 and 2015. It s sad because when I grew up we could walk here at night, said Debbie. Brandouw goes to Hans Moore High School in Benoni, and I have to be honest, I did not know my son had so many friends. The support he is getting is just amazing. I want to thank Johanna, Sara Cele, Tannie Rhetha, MML Security, the neighbourhood watch and all the residents and emergency services. One resident, who asked not to be named, said Birchleigh had become a troublesome neighbourhood. There are a lot of silly youngsters who wander around Limba Avenue in the morning when they are supposed to be at school. We see them and we can smell that whatever it is that is burning in their hands is not cigarettes. An elderly woman is always chasing them away from her lawn. We want more patrols and policing to ensure that these teenage boys go to school instead of just walking up and down the streets. Norkem Park police spokesperson Captani Lesibana Molokomme confirmed a case of assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm has been opened. More charges could still be added later. Anyone with information about the identities of the suspects can visit Norkem Park SAPS (scholars may be accompanied by their parents) or alternatively call 011 391 1814/5 or 086 001 0111. The police will ensure confidentiality. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter