Hi my name is Salam; I go to a school in Dar es Salaam. Recently there is a new boy who joined our school, though he was cool in the beginning I have come to realise that he is a bully. The problem is that though he doesn t bully me he does it to other people which is making me lose friends. I just don t know why he behaves this way.Bullying is a big problem. It makes children feel hurt, scared, sick, lonely, embarrassed and sad.Bullies might hit, kick, or push to hurt people, or call names, threaten, tease, or scare them.Some threaten people or try to make them do things they don t want to do. Bullying is a big problem that affects lots of children. Three-quarters say they have been bullied or teased.Being bullied can make children feel really bad. The stress of dealing with bullies can make kids feel sick.Bullying bothers everyone and not just the kids who are getting picked on. Bullying can make school a place of fear and can lead to more violence and more stress for everyone. Some bullies are looking for attention. They might think bullying is a way to be popular or to get what they want.Most bullies are trying to make themselves feel more important. When they pick on someone else, it can make them feel big and powerful.Some of these children come from families where everyone is angry and shouting all the time.They may think that being angry, calling names, and pushing people around is a normal way to act. Some bullies are copying what they ve seen someone else do. Some have been bullied themselves.Sometimes bullies know that what they are doing or saying hurts other people. But other bullies may not really know how hurtful their actions can be. Most bullies don t understand or care about the feelings of others.Bullies often pick on someone they think they can have power over. They might pick on kids who get upset easily or who have trouble sticking up for themselves.Getting a big reaction out of someone can make bullies feel like they have the power they wanSometimes bullies pick on someone who is smarter than they are or different from them in some way. Sometimes bullies just pick on a kid for no reason at all.As much as you can, avoid the bully. You can t go into hiding or skip class, of course. But if you can take a different route and avoid him or her, do so.When you re scared of another person, you re probably not feeling your bravest. But sometimes just acting brave is enough to stop a bully. How does a brave person look and act? Stand tall and you ll send the message: Don t mess with me. It s easier to feel brave when you feel good about yourself.