A police official facing corruption charges appeared in the Specialised Commercial Crime Court in Bellville, in Cape Town on Tuesday. Hein Hendricks, 30, of Summer Greens, a neighbourhood in Milnerton, appeared before magistrate Sabrina Sonnenberg. He was not asked to plead, and he was warned to appear in court again on July 20. According to the charge sheet, he held the rank of detective constable, and was based at the Milnerton police station. On one of the charges he is alleged to have requested a R700 bribe from a suspect in May 4 last year, for the suspect s release on bail. The suspect did not have the money, but was released on bail, in any event, when his lawyer arrived. Prosecutor Ezmarelda Johnson alleges that Hendricks persisted with his requests for the R700, this time in order to sort out the suspect s case. Some months later, the court threw out the charges against the suspect and his co-accused, because the docket relating to the charges was not at court. It is alleged that, in August last year, Hendricks again requested two amounts from the same suspect R1,000 and R1,500 this time to settle everything , and the suspect paid him R700. On the second corruption charge, Hendricks is alleged to have requested R2,000 from a woman who wished to withdraw an assault charge against her husband. The woman gave him R600 which was all that she had. It is alleged that Hendricks telephoned her at least twice afterwards, for the remaining R1,400. She was only able to scrape together a further R900, which she gave to him at a pre-arranged meeting at a 7/11 store, it is alleged. For the R900, the husband was merely released from custody, and she had to attend the court proceedings in April last year, when Hendricks was to inform her who to approach at the court for the withdrawal of the assault charge. About three months later, the same husband was re-arrested on a previous, outstanding assault charge, and when the wife tried to withdraw this charge as well, Hendricks requested a further R4,000 to assist her, it is alleged. She was only able to offer him R3,000, which he accepted. The charge was in fact withdrawn by senior prosecutor David Jacobs, to whom the wife reported that she had in fact paid Hendricks to have the charge withdrawn. Hendricks faces two corruption charges relating to the assault case. On the fourth charge he is alleged to have corruptly received R5,000 to release two suspects from custody, for possession of stolen property.