How does a man father 24 children and his wife is shocked at this revelation, come his funeral? I am shocked that the wife was the last to know. This culture of sons being so vigourously protected by their families that such an injustice can occur has got to stop. One man, 24 children, many different mothers and all by a public figure this is surely a recipe for a great disaster. We live in a time when we can tell our children right from wrong, hoping that they will follow these teachings. What has a father taught his sons by fathering a nation of children? What lesson is being taught to daughters who will grow up as illegitimate children because their mothers were comfortable with giving birth to child number 20 to a man already married? How do you teach your child to respect the sanctity of marriage if you as an adult failed to do so? Do as I say, not as I do? One has to wonder if celebrity status influenced how this life panned out. Were women at peace with being unmarried mother 19 because this is Gunman, he could have any woman and he chose me? If it was ordinary Sipho would it be readily acceptable? We have given celebrities such free rein that their behaviour erodes the very same social fibre that they claim to be so concerned about. Parents need to teach their children that celebrities are human and governed by the same laws that govern Joe Soap. A mental disorder such as depression must never be accepted as an excuse for reckless living. We are talking about 24 children and 24 mothers, father included 49 lives that are affected directly by the siring of these children. Though it may be a contributing factor, a mental disorder can t be used as a crutch to destroy lives. If the father was plagued by difficulty, what was the excuse of these mothers? Did the family and friends who knew of this risky behaviour not question it? Born from this broken situation are now children who run the risk of growing up to be broken individuals all because two adults put reason aside and failed to consider the hangover effects of risky decision-making. Kekeletso Nakeli-Dhliwayo