The council of the University of Johannesburg (UJ) on Sunday announced the appointment of Professor Tshilidzi Marwala as the university s second vice-chancellor and principal. Marwala s appointment followed a rigorous and extensive selection process, as required by the university statute and the university s rules for the appointment of the vice-chancellor, UJ said in a statement. Marwala, currently deputy vice-chancellor of research and internationalisation at UJ, would succeed Professor Ihron Rensburg on January 1, 2018. Announcing the decision following the university s council meeting on June 22, chairman of the university s council Professor Roy Marcus said the appointment of Marwala would further advance the strategic goal of the university to become Africa s epicentre of critical intellectual enquiry. Since its [UJ] establishment in 2005 and under the bold and visionary leadership of Prof Ihron Rensburg, the university has had a remarkable journey that has seen it become the national standard bearer for transformation, equity, access, and Pan African, and global excellence, he said. As a result, the university has become a leading African university with global stature that is now ranked 7th among Africa s universities, and ranked within the top 2.3 percent of universities in the world as published in the QS World University Rankings for 2017/2018. This is an exceptional accomplishment, reaffirming the notable headway that UJ has made in attaining Pan African and global academic excellence and world-class status. I am confident that Prof Marwala will further advance UJ s vision of excellence in teaching, research and innovation, internationalisation, public scholarship, and community engagement. Prof Marwala s excellent academic pedigree and extensive national and international experiences will be vital to deepening and widening on our strategic goal of Pan African and global excellence and stature, Marcus said. Marwala had a distinguished tenure at UJ as the deputy vice-chancellor of research and internationalisation since 2013, and was previously UJ s executive dean of the faculty of engineering and the built environment, the university statement said. Marwala had received in excess of 45 honours and awards, including the Order of Mapungubwe, and was the first African engineer to be awarded the National Research Foundation s president s award. Notable other honours and awards included being the Carl and Emily Fuchs chair of systems and control engineering as well as the SARChI chair of systems engineering at the University of the Witwatersrand. Marwala s academic qualifications included a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering (magna cum laude) from Case Western Reserve University (USA), a Master of Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pretoria, and a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Engineering from Cambridge University. He completed a post-doctoral research associateship at the Imperial College (London) and a programme for leadership development at Harvard Business School, the UJ said. Marwala was a registered professional engineer, a fellow of TWAS (The World Academy of Sciences), the Academy of Science of South Africa, the African Academy of Sciences, the South African Academy of Engineering, a senior member of the IEEE (the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers), and a distinguished member of the ACM (Association for Computing Machinery). Marwala had published nine books, over 300 papers in journals, proceedings, book chapters and magazines, and held three international patents. His global network was wide and included being a visiting scholar at Harvard University, at the University of California at Berkeley, at the Wolfson College of University of Cambridge, and at Nanjing Tech University, the UJ statement said. The UJ statement also acknowledged the outstanding legacy and contributions of Rensburg as the outgoing vice-chancellor. African News Agency (ANA)