Two patients who lost the sight in their respective left eyes after contracting a toxic syndrome during cataract operations have instituted damages claims totalling more than R11.8 million against Netcare. Pretoria nurse Susan Botha, 64, obtained an order in the High Court in Pretoria declaring Netcare 100% liable for the damages she suffered as a result of an unsuccessful operation on her left eye at the Pretoria East hospital in March 2014 to remove cataracts and implant a lens. She instituted a damages claim of more than R3.1 million against Netcare after contracting toxic anterior segment syndrome, which resulted in a permanently enlarged pupil and the near total loss of vision in her left eye. Pretoria businessperson Nicolas de Jager, 59, who went blind in his left eye when he developed the same syndrome after a similar operation by the same surgeon on the same day, instituted a damages claim of over R8.7 million. He obtained an order forcing Netcare to file further papers in his application. Botha and De Jager both earlier underwent successful cataract operations to their right eye at the same hospital. Both claimed in court papers the hospital had been negligent during their second procedure by failing to ensure that the equipment was properly sterilized in a way that would not cause them harm. They also alleged the hospital failed to provide an adequate theatre room and failed to properly monitor their condition and to provide adequate recovery services. Both now face further medical complications and might need further surgery and treatment in future. Botha claimed not only for her medical costs, loss of income, pain and suffering, but also for her severe psychological trauma for which she needed treatment. De Jager, an electrical and wiring specialist who runs his own business manufacturing and installing bakery equipment, in addition claimed for his loss in income as he lost contracts, could not complete others and now needed to employ a specially trained person as he could no longer do the work himself. ilsedl@citizen.co.za