The new GLA is introduced with a variety of engines, targeted visual accentuation in the interior and exterior design plus updated equipment lines. . This sees the look of the compact SUV gaining considerably in presence, and the body impresses with a significantly more powerful design idiom. The GLA was presented for the first time in 2013, and from the word go became a model of success in a segment it has shaped and redefined. The GLA is characterised by its sportily dynamic design idiom, light-footed handling and extensive individualisation range. With seven model series (GLA, GLC, GLC Coupe, GLE, GLE Coupe, GLS and G) Mercedes-Benz boasts the broadest SUV range of all the European premium manufacturers and thus meets all the individual mobility requirements of its customers. This also applies to the portfolio of the GLA: no other competitor offers a larger selection of engines in its segment from the Mercedes-Benz GLA 200 d base model with 100kW of power and a CO2 value from 115 g/km up to the 280kW Mercedes-AMG GLA 45 4MATIC. . And on test here is the 155kW/350Nm GLA 250 4MATIC. Running a 7G-DCT transmission, the compact SUV gets to 100km/h in a fairly rapid 8.34 seconds, the quarter mile in 16.15 seconds, and crosses the 1km mark at 187km/h. Top speed settles at 235km/h. The claimed fuel consumption number of 6.6 litres per 100km was never achieved, with a more realistic 10.9 litres per 100km being achieved. Pricing for the Mercedes-Benz GLA 250 4MATIC starts at R654 700 and this includes a two-year/ Unlimited km manufacturer warranty and a six-year/100 000km Maintenance Plan. The attractively styled interior of the GLA with high-quality materials and excellent workmanship is enhanced by new seat covers and trim parts as well as chromed control panels. The free-standing eight-inch media display is slim and is easily legible, as are the new gauges with red needles. The Night Package offering includes 19-inch AMG wheels and black window trim, exterior mirrors, roof rails, exhaust tips and exterior accents that underscores the sporty look of the GLA. . Available optionally on the GLA250 and standard on the AMG GLA45, LED High Performance headlamps replace the currently available bi-xenon headlamps. Alongside brilliant illumination, these headlamps are characterised by a colour temperature similar to daylight and relieve eye strain when driving at night. Vehicle safety is the top priority at Mercedes-Benz. The GLA offers Active Brake Assist as standard: it warns the driver if there is not sufficient distance to the vehicle in front and, if required, delivers situation-appropriate braking. If the system detects that the driver is reacting too late, it initiates autonomous braking in order to prevent the collision or minimize the consequences. The GLA is also standard-equipped with ATTENTION ASSIST, which can detect typical signs of drowsiness via the steering behaviour and warn the driver. . &nbsp;