Jockey Bernard Fayd Herbe makes the trip to Port Elizabeth today and has some decent rides for the Justin Snaith yard at Fairview. Snaith saddles three runners in the Friendly City Stakes (Non-Black Type) over 1800m on the turf track and the fact Fayd Herbe has taken the ride on It Is Written indicates he could well be the stable elect. This six-year-old son of Dynasty has had mixed fortune in his two runs at Fairview, running a decent 1.55-length sixth behind Mister Matchett over 1600m on debut but then ran a shocker when beaten 16 lengths by Kingvoldt in a MR 100 Handicap over 1400m. However, he was found to have pulled up lame and that resulted in a three-month break. He returned in a Pinnacle Stakes over 1800m at Kenilworth in May and ran on strongly to finish a 2.65-length third behind Milton with Fayd Herbe in the irons. That run should have brought him on perfectly and from No 4 draw could end up a hard horse to beat. Although not well handicapped under the race conditions, Dynastic Power could be the main threat to It Is Written. He ran a decent 1.85-length fourth behind Road To Indy over 2000m last time and looks well weighted to reverse the form against the winner and second-placed Laws Of Succession. Dynastic Power hails from the in-form Alan Greeff yard, has Greg Cheyne in the irons and is nicely drawn at No 3. Road To Indy is wonderfully consistent and has not run a bad race at the course. He has raced five times at Fairview for three wins and two fourth places and has won his lone start over the course and distance. Jockey Ryan Munger has a proven record on the Tara Laing-trained runner, having ridden him to all five of his victories. Alghadeer has had a remarkable run since arriving in Port Elizabeth but trainer Grant Paddock appears to still be looking for his best distance. He won two races over 2400m in grand style but appeared to find 3200m too far in his next start. He is not without a chance but dropping to 1800m is not in his favour. True Master is the best handicapped runner and must also have some sort of chance but with Fayd Herbe on the stablemate it all points to It Is Written. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.