Another service provider has severed its ties with Oakbay Resources and Energy, which is owned by the controversial Gupta family. This comes after Oakbay said on Tuesday that Terbium Financial Services has given notice of the termination of their appointment as JSE transfer secretary. Transfer secretary is a company designated to transfer stock on behalf of a public company, and perform other services such as running annual meetings as inspector of elections, proxy voting, and special meetings of shareholders. Oakbay said Terbium s termination of their services comes after their internal review and consultation within their management. Oakbay Resources is in the process of identifying and appointing a new transfer secretary. The effective date of Terbium s termination shall not be earlier than 31 July 2017 and shareholders will be advised in due course as to developments in this regard, Oakbay said. Last week, Oakbay lost its JSE sponsor, River Group, when it gave notice of the termination of their appointment as sponsor. River Group terminated their services with Oakbay due to their revised assessment of association risk surrounding the company and its shareholders. Oakbay has to find a replacement sponsor within six months or risk being delisted from JSE. The Gupta family businesses have suffered a series of blows, including the loss of senior staff and banking facilities, amid allegations of political meddling and state capture. All South African big banks, including Absa, Nedbank, FNB, and Standard Bank, have severed ties with the family s business empire. Even auditors KPMG and sponsors Sasfin Capital resigned as Oakbay s respective service providers this year over concerns about the family s business activities. Oakbay Resources is a JSE listed miner of energy-related resources, with a priority focus on uranium. The company mines gold deposits as a by-product and also offers outsourced contracting to the mining industry. Oakbay is expected to report a loss of nearly R1 billion because of an R880 million impairment recorded against its Shiva Uranium mine due to low uranium prices and reduced gold output.