Most parents find it necessary to buy gifts for their children during Idd-ul-Fitr festive season.They are even forced to invest so as to make the festival a success in their families, especially by ensuring their children enjoy---of course appearing in new clothes.That s why during fasting, seeing people shopping for their little ones is very common even for those who come from extended families.This week we celebrate Eid and most children are naturally excited and they hope to celebrate in many ways that suit their desires.Speaking to Young Citizen, children share on how they expect to celebrate the end of Ramadhan.Munira Salim, is a Grade Seven pupil at Tusiime Primary School to her this is time share happiness, fun and it is not proper to run, jump and play seek and hide games at the mosque. My parents say we shall go to mosque thereafter they will take us to a certain hotel in Bagamoyo. We expect to eat, drink and play the whole day with other children, says Munira.Malick Ibrahim, goes to Atlas School he is in celebration mood because his parents have bought him new clothes, shoes and other gifts to share with his friends who are not as lucky as he is. It is good to see that even poor children and orphans do not feel isolated. They enjoy Idd-ul-Fitr as anyone else. This is what Allah wants us to do, he says,He adds: We have bought food and drinks and clothes for the orphans. We will visit them at their centre and thereafter get back home and continue the celebration as a family. Malick says one the second day of Idd, his parents have promised to take them to the beach for swimming.As for Mariam Bakari there is a whole lot to talk about given the fact that she is on holiday. I m happy; everyone is just decorating. Tomorrow we will visit our aunt at Kibamba. We will eat a special meal. I am happy that I will be wearing new clothes too. Mr Juma Abdallah a father of two, says Idd-ul-Fitr is a special event that brings families together.He notes that, the event makes everyone happy, adding that it time for Muslims to give gifts to the destitute and orphans. It is a special day for family, friends and relatives to start with prayers in the morning followed by a short sermon, says Abdallah.He adds: Some Muslim prayers take place in the open grounds and others in Mosque and after that they wish each other Happy Idd-ul-Fitr. People then visit relatives, friends and sometimes graveyards to pray for their dead.All Muslim around the world celebrate Idd-ul-Fitr as a festival of waning the fasting month of Ramadan. The event is celebrated for two or three days. In the morning of the first day, Muslims commonly gather for prayers.