There are South African rugby fans who weren t all that chuffed by Springbok coach Allister Coetzee s decision to recall Frans Steyn. Misunderstood, selfish and unpredictable are just a few labels the 30-year-old utility back have been given over the years. But here s the irony of the unlocking Steyn: it s actually not all that difficult. Also read: The hits and misses of the Springbok squad A look at his career reveals he blossoms when he s given a clear role. It explains why Steyn set the 2007 World Cup alight as 20-year-old when he was selected as an inside centre. It explains why he played a big part in the Boks successful 2009 Tri-Nations campaign when national coach Peter de Villiers finally settled on him as a fullback. And, of course, why he looked good in Heyneke Meyer s first year as Bok coach when he returned to inside centre. Jake White, who s coached him at the Boks, Sharks and French club Montpellier, always got the best out of him because he realised fairly quickly the need to give Steyn a set role. Coetzee, who was White s assistant in the 2007 World Cup, is clearly aware of that. Coach Allister and I had a good chat and he told me I can still make a contribution towards the Springboks. I told him I would do my best for the team when I join them, said Steyn. I am looking forward to getting to know the squad members a bit better during the next couple of days. Hopefully that good chat doesn t involve him being used as a so-called floater in the squad the guy who has to slot in where needed. That s where many have got it wrong. They ve picked Steyn at fullback, flyhalf and centre. That versatility is a curse. Worryingly, Coetzee has subtly suggested just that in justifying his selection. Frans comes with a wealth of experience and I am delighted that he has joined us. With so many new faces in the squad s backline it really is a huge bonus to have a player of the calibre of Frans joining us, he said. Steyn shouldn t be considered a versatile veteran in the series against the French. If Coetzee believes he s the best fullback or inside centre, he should be in the starting line-up. Steyn s an experienced, creative and a big physical presence at 1.91m and 100kg. He kicks well out of hand and, importantly, he s a strong defender. Given Coetzee s need for short-term results in this series, he could do worse than bank on Steyn. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.