Most, though not all, 5-year-olds are ready to tackle school. For some children, going to kindergarten marks the first major separation from you and your partner. For children who attended daycare or preschool, kindergarten is still a major turning point, because your child will be given more responsibilities and independence in school.And big school is usually a much larger and more complex social setting than any she s known before.What you ll seeAt this age, your child is probably able to separate from you and your partner comfortably. In fact, she may be eager to head off to a friend s house, or stay with grandma for the weekend. Still, helping your child cope with separation now will make future separations easier. That s especially true if your child has a shy, anxious, or timid temperament, since she may be more sensitive to separations.Your child will also be increasingly less dependent on you by now. That s a positive sign that she s more secure and her sense of identity is stronger. For instance, during this year, if not before, your child will learn the value of friends both children and adults outside her own family, a strong indicator of her growing independence.She ll be able to do more things for herself, such as taking a bath with your help. And she can help out with family chores, including setting the table for dinner or planting seeds for a vegetable garden. But don t panic; despite this emerging independence, there s a long way yet before your child goes off to college.What you can doIt s simple: Encourage your child s growing independence. The challenge of parenting lies in finding the balance between nurturing, protecting, and guiding your child, and allowing her to explore, experiment, and become an independent, unique person.So let your child safely try something new, such as trying a different food, finding a new friend, or riding a bike without training wheels, and resist the urge to intervene. Jumping in to say, I ll do it can foster dependence and diminish your child s confidence.You ll also want to balance between offering your child developmentally appropriate challenges, which may still involve some frustration on her part, and having her stretch to tackle developmentally inappropriate tasks, which can squelch independence.In other words, let her tough it out a bit as she figures out where to put things as she sets the table, for instance, but don t expect her to make a whole salad. Watch for her cues. Following are some smart strategies to try:At home acknowledge the importance of your child s increasingly independent relationships. Suggest that your kindergartner invite her school pals home.It s important for the self-esteem of a child this age to show off her home, family, and toys. This doesn t mean your house has to be luxurious or filled with expensive playthings; warm and welcoming is what s needed here.At schoolA child who has a tough time separating, or one who isn t used to being apart from you or your partner, can benefit from a little extra time in the morning before heading off to kindergarten. Plan to wait with her at the bus stop before saying goodbye. Or build in extra time for breakfast together.Around othersA child s sense of independence is also nourished when you treat her with respect. For instance, her body is her own, so don t insist that she kiss or hug relatives or family friends if she doesn t want to. Instead, let her set her own pace for public displays of affection.If Grandma feels slighted, simply explain to her that you don t want to force your child to show her affection when she doesn t want to she ll probably find other ways to let her know she s happy to see her.At sleepoversYou should also assess whether your child is ready for a sleepover or an extended stay at a relative s home. If she needs elaborate bedtime rituals or clings or cries when you leave her or seems unhappy in new situations, you may want to postpone a sleepover for everyone s sake.Instead, try a practice run: Send your pj-clad, sleeping-bag-toting child to a friend s or family member s place for a few hours of nighttime fun, chatting, and snacking.