The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) leadership in the Nkangala region in Mpumalanga on Saturday called on it alliance partner the African National Congress to stop treating it like a stepchild . Sanco becomes relevant to the ANC only when we mobilise support for the ANC towards the elections, Sanco Nkangala regional secretary Thabo Motau told the ANC s Nkangala regional conference at the Zithabiseni Resort near Mathys Zyn Loop in Mpumalanga. Sanco is one of the ANC-led alliance partners, together with the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) and the South African Communist Party. Motau said Sanco members deployed to positions in various spheres of government in the region currently constituted a small percentage. Sanco was so irked by the ANC s stepchild treatment that it would continue to lead protests over a lack of services in many communities. This stepchild treatment we are getting from the ANC is worrying us. We are in this alliance with you, [ANC], but, as Sanco, we do not govern with you. There is no climate of trust. You have seen us leading the protests on the streets in the past and we will continue doing that. Motau warned that the ANC was likely to lose the municipalities currently under its control in the region in the next local government elections if it continued treating Sanco as a stepchild. The outcome of the 2016 municipal elections showed the disgruntlement of Sanco members. The ANC also ran the risk of disunity if its attitude to Sanco did not change. ANC-controlled municipalities in the Nkangala region include the Thembisile Hani local municipality, Dr JS Moroka local municipality, and the Steve Tshwete local municipality. Motau called on the ANC to work hard to improve the state of the municipalities it controlled in the region to speed up service delivery and infrastructure development. ANC Nkangala region spokesman Sello Matshoga said his party was not yet in a position to comment on Sanco s remarks. African News Agerncy (ANA)