The Lions&#8217; presence in the Springboks team keeps growing. Coach Allister Coetzee on Thursday named two more members of the Johannesburg franchise in his match 23 for the third Test against Frane at Ellis Park this weekend. It means the number now swells to eight. Notable is the inclusion of Ruan Dreyer at tighthead. The 26-year-old hasn&#8217;t featured in the series yet but made it straight into the starting line-up as replacement for Frans Malherbe. &#8220;The inclusion of Ruan in the starting team gives us an important opportunity to build capacity in the tighthead position,&#8221; said Coetzee. &#8220;This is a very important position. It is great to have players such as Coenie Oosthuizen and Steven Kitshoff coming off the bench as a combination, while Ruan will start next to his Lions teammate in hooker Malcolm Marx.&#8221; However, the fact that Dreyer is immediately promoted while Oosthuizen still has to play off the bench is revealing. Does that still suggest doubts over Oosthuizen&#8217;s scrumming ability at tighthead linger, that it&#8217;s better for him to come on later when the platform has been set? The bustling Lions flanker Jaco Kriel is on the bench. The Springboks also reverted back to their initial centre combination of Jesse Kriel and Jan Serfontein. Coetzee though admits it was tough leaving Lionel Mapoe out. &#8220;Jesse had an outstanding game in the first match in Pretoria and he really combined well with. The retention of combinations is important because that will add to our continuity. &#8220;The selection of the centre pairing was really a tough task and Lionel Mapoe is perhaps unlucky to lose out on the match 23. He played well in Durban. My decision is based on developing combinations.&#8221; Springboks: Andries Coetzee, Raymond Rhule, Jesse Kriel, Jan Serfontein, Courtnall Skosan, Elton Jantjies, Francois Hougaard, Warren Whiteley (c), Jean-Luc du Preez, Siya Kolisi, Franco Mostert, Eben Etzebeth, Ruan Dreyer, Malcolm Marx, Beast Mtawarira. Bench: Bongi Mbonambi, Steven Kitshoff, Coenie Oosthuizen, Pieter-Steph du Toit, Jaco Kriel, Rudy Paige, Frans Steyn, Dillyn Leyds. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Would you like to place a rugby bet? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.