When Piere Strydom landed at King Shaka Airport in Durban on Saturday and heard his mount in Race 4 at Greyville had been scratched, he was wondering why he bothered flying down for the race meeting. When I looked at my rides I thought that was my only chance for a winner. Now it was scratched, he said. However, when he left Greyville Racecourse to return to the airport that evening he had ridden two winners, which were the Grade 1 Woolavington 2000 with Lady Of The House and the Grade 3 Lonsdale Stirrup Cup with Captain Splendid. Lady Of The House was the first half of a Grade 1 double for trainer Brett Crawford and owners Mayfair Speculators as he also went on to collect the trophy for the Daily News 2000, won by Edict Of Nantes, with Anton Marcus up. Many pundits saw the Daily News as a two-horse race between Edict Of Nantes, the Investec Cape Derby winner, and Sean Tarrytrained Al Sahem, the SA Derby champion. Those who predicted the outcome were spot on but it was clear Edict Of Nantes was able to quicken up better than his rival in the short Greyville straight and was able to get first run on Al Sahem. The two dominated the betting with Edict Of Nantes going off marginally shorter at 22-10 with Al Sahem at 5-2 although the latter started favourite with TAB. Gingerbread Man led the field early on from Dark Moon Rising, Secret Captain and Horizon, with Al Sahem racing some five lengths off the pace and Edict Of Nantes on his heels. Once in the straight both moved out along with Horizon, who appeared to make contact with Al Sahem. Marcus got his mount into the lead and Al Sahem was not able to get to grips with the Cape-based runner and went down 0.50 lengths. Horizon stayed on for third with Glider Pilot flying up for fourth. Strydom s two winners would not have delighted too many punters as Lady Of The House went off at 20-1 and Captain Splendid at 8-1. Strydom had to overcome No 15 draw and wasted little time getting his mount into the lead in what looked a sedate pace. They didn t go that slow but the track was fast, said Strydom. I was told I could use her early on because she stays and is super fit. What punters did not know is that his saddle slipped shortly after the start. That was a concern to me because when she started to hang in late in the race I wasn t really able to ride her too vigorously. As a result she hung in late and came together with 33-10 shot Gimme Six but stayed on to win by a head. Anthony Delpech lodged an objection against Lady Of The House but it was overruled. Safe Harbour (7-1) stayed on for third just ahead of SA Fillies Classic winner Orchid Island (12-1). As far as the Lonsdale was concerned Strydom says he was told the Captain Splendid s work had improved tremendously since his last run. He was held on form so that must have made the difference, he added. As expected Serissa took the field along from Three Balloons with Strydom in third, just ahead of My World. Once in the straight Strydom wasted no time getting his mount to the front and it was clear some way out he was not for the catching. My World got second, beaten 0.50 lengths, with Serissa staying on for third, a neck further back. Crawford took his Grade 1 double with humility. You ve just got to keep your feet on the ground and work hard and things will come your way. That s what I believe. But I am very well supported and I am for that I m eternally thankful. He added that Edict Of Nantes was well prepared for this Daily News. You can t come into Grade 1 races under-prepared. But I must give full credit to Anton for a fantastic ride. The Durban July is next. We ve got some time to get ready and I m looking forward to the big race. 