Tricky juvenile races in three of the Pick 6 legs will make winning a share of the likely R13- million plus pool a challenge at Greyville tomorrow, but a king s ransom could await those who do get it right. GOLD CIRCLE GOLDEN SLIPPER First up is the R600,000 Gold Circle Golden Slipper (Grade 2) over 1400m and Sean Tarry could help punters out with the winner. The trainer, whose stable has hit a purple patch of form, has three runners with Desert Rhythm arguably the best. She will be ridden by S manga Khumalo and scored an exceptional victory in her only race over this kind of distance, beating Only To Win and Spring Poetry (both won next time) at Turff ontein. She went on to run fourth behind Green Plains in the Fillies Nursery over 1160m with Star Profile 0.75 lengths behind her in third and Outlander downfi eld. She is probably better over this trip and with the reserve runners out, will jump from a good draw. Stablemate Rockin Russian had excuses for her three-length fourth behind Meryl in the Devon Air Stakes over this course and distance this month and looks sure to run a good race, in spite of a widish draw. Duncan Howells-trained Neptune s Rain will have plenty of supporters, in spite of being drawn widest of all. She has two wins, including the Strelitzia Stakes, in the bag and placed for the second time when third behind Brave Mary in the Allan Robertson Championship last month. There is no guarantee she will enjoy this 200m longer distance, though. DURBAN GOLDEN HORSESHOE In the Durban Golden Horseshoe (Grade 2) over 1400m, Pick 6 players might get away with only two horses, Trojan Harbour and Hakeem. Gareth van Zyl-trained Trojan Harbour is very badly drawn but has won his last two starts, most recently easily accounting for Ancestry in the Gatecrasher Stakes over this course and distance. That experience on this course will count him in good stead when he takes on highly regarded Hakeem, who tries a turn for the first time after running twice over this distance down the Vaal straight. Trainer Mike de Kock s charge won second time out, going off at 6-10 and trouncing Llandudno by 5.25 lengths. He is better drawn than more exposed stablemate Naafer, who has some good form to his name including a second to Mustaaqeem in the SA Nursery over 1160m at Turff ontein. Tarry-trained Purple Diamond enjoyed an extended sprint in his fourth career start and beat Varimax by a length last time out. The runner-up, who renews rivalry, came out over 1200m next time and cruised in by 6.75 lengths. Another Tarry-trained runner is Captain And Master, who seems the stable elect on jockey bookings but tries further and will have to navigate a turn for the first time. Chances also to Ancestry, Varallo and Woljayrine. KZN YEARLING SALE MILLION Many will count on in-form Brett Crawford to provide them with the winner of the KZN Yearling Sale Million over 1300m, the final leg of the Pick 6, and he could oblige with Al Mariachi. Although not that well drawn, the colt has some excellent 1200m form to his name, including a 2.50-length third behind Sand And Sea in the Gold Medallion. However, Highveld raider Prince Of Kahal could take a power of beating on his last run, when accounting for Var s Your Daddy over 1450m, form that has worked out exceptionally well. Look beyond those two and there are quite a few runners who could shape. Best of whom could be De Kocktrained Well Connected. He scored a good win on debut but will need luck to overcome a very wide draw. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.