Gemini 22 May-21 June The stars are good for professional projects, volunteer work and creative thinking, but nervous energy is also high today. So, if you don t pace yourself, you ll be exhausted by bedtime. Cancer 22 June 23 July Tread carefully. All is not as it appears today. What people say and what they mean will be two completely different things. So listen closely with your head, your heart and your intuition. Leo 24 July 23 Aug Lions can be self-absorbed souls but helping others is the way you ll get the most out of the day. The Aquarian Moon encourages you to focus less on yourself and more on others for a change! Virgo 24 August 23 September There may be some tension between keeping work colleagues happy and fulfilling all of your romantic or family responsibilities. Confusion is also high so avoid making important decisions. Libra 24 September 23 October You have a knack for making others feel comfortable with your convivial conversation and pleasant repartee. But be extra careful when posting comments on social media today. Scorpio 24 October- 22 November Nebulous Neptune is stirring up your creativity/friendship zone, so projects and people will be hard to pin down. The more open and flexible you are, the better the day will be. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December You re in the mood to socialise but take care when communicating with others today. You re keen to help, but make sure your well-meant generosity doesn t end up as just empty promises. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Take extra care when connecting with other people today Capricorn. Neptune is likely to confuse communication in person plus via phone calls, e-mails, texts, tweets and social media. Aquarius 21 January- 19 February Are you worried about money? It s time to investigate clever ways to boost your cash flow. But keep friends and finances well separated today, otherwise confusion and misunderstandings are likely. Pisces 20 February- 20 March You re keen to help a relative or friend in need but keep it real and don t promise more than you can actually deliver. Be careful because something you post online could be misconstrued. Aries 21 March 20 April Frustration levels will be high today as Neptune scrambles communication, especially online. So try to do some exercise preferably outdoors to expend frustrated energy in positive ways. Taurus 21 April 21 May Your creative qualities are boosted at the moment as Venus shimmies through your sign. But Neptune is confusing communication today, so make sure you check everything twice!