The musician and Arthur Mafokate&#8217;s rumoured girlfriend Busisiwe Twala, popularly known as Cici, has shared a disturbing picture of a scar from a pelvic replacement operation. She shared the picture on Saturday, with the hashtag #BreakTheSilence, leaving many wondering if it was her in the picture and if she suffered the abuse at the hands of her rumoured boyfriend. The picture was shared on Twitter by Babalwa Mmeno, who asked what was going on. GUYS CICI JUST POSYED THIS AND HASHTAG #breakthesilience ??Whatsgoin on??Did her partner do this to her?If so pls can the law take its place pic.twitter.com/jkruDnmBYM &mdash; Babalwa Mneno (@barbiliscious) June 10, 2017 Last week, Cici opened a case of assault against Mafokate, who she called my boyfriend in a police statement. Mafokate allegedly dragged her on the street with his car during an argument after receiving a phone call from another woman while they were in the bedroom on Thursday evening, reported Sunday World. Mafokate reportedly answered the call outside, leaving Cici suspecting he was talking to a nyatsi. After hearing a giggle from Mafokate, Cici then asked him who he was speaking to, but he refused to reveal the identity of the woman who was making him giggle. An argument then started after she tried to grab the phone from him. Mafokate then went outside and got into his car while cursing and telling her not to argue with him in the presence of his children. She went after him and pleaded with him to open the door of the car, but Mafokate refused and allegedly drove off while she was still holding the handle. She was reportedly admitted to Waterfall Hospital in Midrand for the injuries she sustained during the incident. Mafokate was subsequently arrested, but reportedly opened a countercharge against Cici. Police told the publication Mafokate claimed Cici assaulted him with chairs and tables while they were wrestling for his phone. He further said he was not aware she was still holding on to the car when he drove off in an attempt to avoid the escalation of the fight. Mafokate appeared at the Midrand Magistrates Court on Friday for common assault and was released on R500 bail. The case was adjourned indefinitely for further investigation. Following the reports, EFF leader Julius Malema has questioned the ANC Women s League s silence on the matter. Read more: Malema questions ANCWL&#8217;s silence on Arthur Mafokate&#8217;s &#8216;domestic violence&#8217;