An investigation is under way as to why alleged notorious Garsfontein burglar has been allowed to walk free again. The &#8216;Fence Ninja&#8217; was arrested after months of effort by the Garsfontein community last week, Rekord East reported. But when he appeared in the Pretoria Magistrates Court yesterday, he was allowed to walk free without charges being pressed. Lucas Mahlangu, 36, faced 16 charges of housebreaking, and is also allegedly an illegal immigrant from Mozambique. Garsfontein police spokesperson Captain Ilze Jones confirmed today an investigation was under way as to why the court released him. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku could not immediately comment, but undertook to investigate and comment later. Anti-crime campaigner Yusuf Abramjee said he had discussed the man s release with Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, and was assured there would be an investigation. Mahlangu s release came on top of an earlier incident in March, when he was apprehended by a local security company and taken to the Garsfontein police station, but was freed without charges. This led to a community protests outside the police station. However, police explained that victims had not laid charges. Mahlangu s alleged crimes were petty theft of food and alcohol, and many victims had not thought it worth laying charges. He also allegedly stole larger items such as bicycles. He would also allegedly reach through open windows and snatch valuables such as cellphones and laptops. After being called upon to do so by station commander Colonel Kervin Solomons, victims did lay charges. Garsfontein has seen several serious crimes in the same period that the Fence Ninja has been operating, since September last year. He was dubbed the Fence Ninja as he cleared garden walls with ease during several close brushes with local security company Accon Solutions. Fence-ninja back behind bars &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter &nbsp;