The tax revenue to partly fund the 2017/18 Budget is also expected to increase by 1The 2017/18 Budget Speech will be read in the next few days. The Budget Framework presented in Parliament back in April 2017 indicated that the overall Budget for 2017/18 will increase by 7.4 per cent from the current year s Budget (from Sh29.5tr to Sh31.7tr). 3.2 percent (from Sh15.1tr to Sh17.1tr). What does this increase tell us?It is unlikely that such a double-digit tax revenue increase will come only from increased economic activities (GDP) or inflation. After all, Tanzania s GDP growth for the past two years has been 7 percent and there are no indications that the growth rate may abruptly change to a double digit in 2017/18. Also, the average inflation rate has been below 6 percent. Therefore, the expected tax revenue increase is likely to come from some tax reforms. Tax reforms may take various shapes.It may just be widening the tax base by imposing tax on objects or subjects that are currently untaxed. In the past two years, we have witnessed a strong move to get away from tax exemptions and reliefs.Tax rate scan also be changed so that the same objects or subjects are taxed more or less. Tax rates can, for example, be reduced to encourage more consumption of taxable objects and in return increase the tax revenue.What would happen if the VAT rate is reduced to 16 percent? Would it lower the prices and increase consumption of vatable goods and services? To encourage industrialisation, tax rates on production may be reduced. Industrialisation needs capital that can be obtained from investments (savings). People are able to save, if their after-tax income is increased. One way to increase after-tax income is to reduce taxes on income or profit.The limitations of tax administration effectively exempt certain types of objects and subjects from tax. Therefore, tax reforms can also be around increasing the effectiveness of the tax administration curb tax avoidance and evasion.Reforms may also aim to clarify or rectify some provisions of the laws so as to smoothen tax administration. The increasing number of tax cases each year is a strong indicator of possible problems in our tax laws that requires rectification.To what extent can the tax system leverage more on the new technologies such as telephony and internet to reduce both administrative and compliance costs?Taxes may be reformed to serve purposes other than immediate tax revenue. Reforms can be used to encourage certain economic activities or economic activities in certain areas. What sort of economic activities do we want to encourage in Dodoma, for example? Should tax policies be used? Tanzania still want to attract Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). To what extent are the existing tax incentives effective in attracting FDIs?Tax reforms can also aim at removing or reducing economic distortions caused by existing tax laws or policies. High employment taxes discourage people to work in the formal sector and hence stay in or move to untaxed informal sector. The combined effect of the uncapped social security, the skills and development levy and the worker s compensation fund may discourage formal employment and also limit the benefits employers can offer their employees.Sometimes court decisions may also trigger reforms. Last year, the Court of Appeal decision in respect of withholding tax on foreign services triggered some income tax reforms. Also, a desire to conform to some international obligations or norms may trigger reforms. Tanzania is a member of both the EAC and SADC and the two can influence the kind of tax reforms.