Cynics of the modern world will tell you the world is becoming more stupid. It s hard to argue against that. Unfortunately, sport isn t immune to this phenomenon. The modern fan s consumption habits are become so instant that 20 million fewer people in the UK are watching the popular English Premier League on television. They don t want to watch golf and they can t stand Test cricket s attrition. But what they clearly do like is idiotic gimmicks like the so-called superfight between Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor happening in August. The bluster surrounding this week s announcement was predictable and mind-numbingly frustrating. Let s not talk about money in this instance. It s useless to do so because it s the only reason why this whole circus is happening. The true tragedy is how this is tarnishing Mayweather s legacy. Yes, Mayweather s nickname is Money and attests to his love of currency. But even if the man is known as a legend of materialism, he s also a legend of his craft. Mayweather is unbeaten in 49 paying fights. He s unbeaten in 26 championship fights. And he s won titles across five weight classes. Heck, with that record, Mayweather can use five dollar bills as toilet paper for all I care. Yet this McGregor stunt is just all so unnecessary. In fact, I can t emphasise enough how utterly stupid this whole affair is. McGregor has no experience as an elite boxer. Zero. Zilch. Nada. Given that the fight takes place under all the standard rules, it s probably that McGregor won t even last the full 12 rounds. In fact, just check this awkward video of him sparring with South Africa&#8217;s Chris van Heerden, a former welterweight champion. Mayweather is one the greatest ever to step into the ring. How on earth can McGregor remotely hope to make a pardon the pun fist of this? And if the UFC star actually is competitive, there ll always be questions over the legitimacy of the fight. Mayweather needs to pulverise him because of the rules. If they are slackened, you might as well have dumped them in an alley and asked them to brawl. And the worst is, millions are falling for this. Respected pundits are actually hyping up the fight by saying McGregor stands a chance. There are YouTube videos illustrating why McGregor will destroy Floyd. When it s all over, we ll all be wondering why we were so stupid in falling for this. Heinz Schenk: Online Sports Editor. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.