Facebook user Sharine Barnard has shared an incident in which she recounts how a metro police officer stopped her and allegedly slapped her on Tuesday. She said she was travelling on the N1 from her farm to Bloemfontein when she was stopped by a traffic cop, who, after a routine check, told her her driver&#8217;s licence had expired a week earlier. The officer further told her he would take her car keys to stop her from driving because of the licence issue, a suggestion she did not take kindly to, as she had her three kids in the car. &#8220;He then tried to take my car keys and my telephone, and I closed my window so fast because he was getting aggressive. I told him that he cannot do what he is doing, and he said he can do anything he wants to, because he is an officer of the law and not me,&#8221; she said. The officer apparently then wrote a ticket, but before he could give it to her, he went back to his car and called a female officer. When the second officer approached Barnard&#8217;s car, she opened the car window with the hope of explaining to the second officer what was going on. &#8220;On her arrival, I opened my window again to talk to her, and just as the conversation went a bit south, she put her arm through the open window and slapped me through my face twice. I struggled to close my window with her arm halfway through it to get another slap at me, and was so shocked!&#8221; The officer allegedly called her a &#8220;f*cking white person&#8221;, and said she was not scared of her, further threatening to hit her some more if she got out of her car. &#8220;I sat there while they shouted at me over and over that they are not scared of me and they will show me that I am not above the law. It looked like he was taking pictures of me and my car? To do what with? To harass me on the roads? I shouted at them that I will lay charges of assault against her, and she said I can go ahead.&#8221; Her husband finally arrived at the scene, and the couple went to a police station, only to allegedly be yelled at some more. The police there are said to have told the couple not to tell them how to do their jobs, and refused to take their statement, as it was apparently the two officers who needed to make a statement. &#8220;Even Botha realised that there is absolutely nothing to be done and we better leave before we get arrested for trying to speak!!!!! If you open your mouth, you get shouted at in Sotho by police officials,&#8221; she wrote. Read her full post below: . We are attempting to contact the traffic police for comment.