a . And the 911 Carrera GTS is more like a supercar you can drive every day. Featuring a newly-developed turbocharger for the 3.0-litre six-cylinder flat engine increases power to 331kW, delivering 22kW more than the 911 Carrera S and only 15kW more than the naturally aspirated engine of the corresponding prior GTS model, you would think calling the GTS a supercar is being a bit generous. But wait till you find out just how quick this GTS Coupe actually is. Running a seven-speed PDK double clutch automatic transmission with launch control and putting the power down through the rear wheels only the GTS gets to 100km/h in a lightning quick 3.62 seconds, the quarter mile in 11.74 seconds, and crosses the half mile and 1km marks at 237km/h and 260km/h respectively. Top speed flattens out at 309.67km/h. This is not only quicker than any other production car producing a mere 331kW , or rear wheel driven car of similar power, the 911 Carrera GTS gets into the numbers of some rather elite company in the form of Audi s R8 V10 Plus, Merc s AMG GT S and it even takes on the likes of Nissan s 2017 GT-R for good measure. . And thanks to the likes of Porsche s Active Suspension Management (PASM), included as standard on all GTS models, along with PASM sports chassis, which lowers the Coupe s body by 10mm, should the road go from straight to twisty, the game of beating a Porsche is going to get absolutely no easier. And at a starting price of R1 768 000, the Porsche 911 Carrera GTS has no equal when it comes to performance or prestige. In the words of Porsche, GTS models traditionally stand out within the 911 model line not only in terms of technology, but also in relation to their visual design. All of the vehicles are based on the wide all-wheel-drive chassis, which measures 1 852mm, including on the rear-wheel-drive models. The new Sport Design front apron emphasises the sporty model s character. An aerodynamically optimised front end featuring a low front spoiler, as well as the increased rear spoiler extension height, all further reduce the lift forces on the front and rear axles, in comparison to existing Carrera S models. At the rear, the GTS is unmistakeable, thanks to smoked tail lights, silk-gloss black air intake grille and central black twin tailpipes for sports exhaust system, which is included as standard. . A new black trim strip between the tail lights characterises the rearwheel-drive models, with a light strip reserved for the all-wheeldrive models. Sport Design exterior mirrors, 20-inch wheels with central locking device painted in silk-gloss black and GTS logos on the doors complete the side view. The characteristic Targa bar, supplied in black for the first time on the GTS, also lends the 911 Targa a distinctive look. GTS genes also shape the interior, this includes the Sport Chrono Package stopwatch which is integrated as a central component of the dashboard. Driver and passenger sit on Alcantara seats with a new stitching pattern. The Sports seats Plus with GTS logos on the headrests can be adjusted in four ways electrically and provide increased lateral support and comfort. Other features include brushed, black anodised aluminium trim strips on the instrument cluster and a high proportion of Alcantara on the steering wheel rim, centre console and armrests. .