Severus Pietersen was at home with his family in Burgershoop on Saturday, 24 June, when he heard a terrible racket coming from the neighbour s yard on the West Rand, Krugersdorp News reports. He peeked over the precast wall and saw a man kneeling beside a dog. As he looked closer, he saw the man had tied a piece of what appeared to be wire of some kind around the dog s neck and was busy strangling it. The man held the wire very tightly around the animal s neck and every 10 seconds or so he would rest his head on the dog s head. On investigating, the neighbour learned that the dog had bitten one of the children in the yard, leading to the man strangling the dog. The child was taken to a hospital for treatment. It s believed the child had severe injuries to his calf and needed an operation to treat it. A man, who wanted to remain anonymous said that he knew that the dog would be put down because of what he had done. READ MORE:Dogs found hanging from tree The makeshift grave opposite the house where a man strangled his dog to death. His name was Chiko, said the man. I loved him and he was like a child to me. What I did was to protect my children, not because I wanted to. He alleged that he and his girlfriend were outside when their child ran to them. The dog grabbed the boy by his calf and ripped a piece from his leg. The owner jumped towards the dog to get him off the boy. The dog was aggressive, and I knew that once a dog has bitten someone, it would do it again in the future. Wendy Prinsloo, another resident of the household who saw the incident take place said the owner sat next to the dead dog for an hour. He just sat there crying, said Prinsloo. We took the child to hospital and he stayed behind to bury the dog. He did not stop crying. Then he had to be the one who told the boy that the dog was dead. The boy also cried about his beloved pet. The dog was buried opposite their house and the children laid flowers on the makeshift grave. The incident was however reported to the Roodepoort SPCA, which will investigate the matter because the man s actions were in direct conflict with the Animal Protection Act 71 of 1962. READ MORE Dogs found hanging from tree Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.