2017&#8217;s seccond major tees off on Thursday with the US Open at Erin Hills in Wisconsin. Here are the South Africans to look out for. Charl Schwartzel Rounding into form at the perfect time, Schwartzel will lead the eight-man South African challenge. The 2011 Masters Champion closed with a final round four-under 66 to finish second at the FedEx St. Jude Classic on Sunday. Only a third round 74 stopped Schwartzel from claiming the title American Daniel Berger won by a shot from him. The 32-year-old had opened with rounds of 65 and 66, and was pleased with his top performance ahead of the year s second Major. Schwartzel already has three top-10s on the PGA tour this season, most notably a third place finish at the Masters in April. As the top-ranked SA player in the field at number 16 in the world, the golfer with a silky smooth putt could well be the man to break the Rainbow Nation s drought in Major championships. That dates back to 2012 when Ernie Els won the Open at Royal Lytham and St George s. Ernie Els Els, now 47, will be teeing it up this week and mark 20 years since he won his second of two US Open titles. The former world No 1 can t have realistic expectations of winning with a best finish of 35th on the PGA Tour this season. The four-time Major champion, however, offered some key insight into the course and what it will take to lift the trophy on Sunday. This is a new venue for everyone, which is unusual in a major, so we re all pretty much starting on the same page. The few players that had seen Erin Hills ahead of this week described it as a great course . Having had my first look on Monday, I d agree with that assessment, said Els. The golf course sits in a rolling, prairie-style landscape with fescue grasses that make it look a little bit linksy in some respects. Branden Grace One man who knows how to find the fairways in US Opens is Grace, who finished in the top five at the tournament in 2015 and 2016. Aided with a putting stroke that tends to perform best on the hard, fast greens of the toughest Major, it could well mean the 29-year-old is ready to win one of the big four events on the global golfing stage. Louis Oosthuizen The is another SA player that could be expected to contend. The 2010 Open Champion has the Major credentials and always seems to up his game in the biggest tournaments. The 21st-ranked player in the world has also not had a top-10 in a Major since the consecutive second place finishes he notched up at the US Open and Open Championship in 2015. Among the other SA players that could make American audiences take notice are George Coetzee, Thomas Aiken and Brandon Stone. Oliver Bekker, in top form, will be making his Major championship debut. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.