Multi-award winning Berita has just released her highly anticipated self-titled album, BERITA. Two years in the making, BERITA is an intimate masterpiece made up of 14 tracks that explore various themes surrounding the topic of love that everyone can relate to. This album is truly special to me, as it explores my personal journey in the past two years from heartbreak, going through soul searching, gaining my power, embracing romance, finding love and appreciating life. I feel free and confident, and can&#8217;t wait for everyone else to hear the music, shares Berita. The debut of Berita s third studio album comes off the back of a private listening session held at Universal Music in Rosebank, Johannesburg, this past Wednesday. The listening session was attended by her close friends and family as well as fellow musicians, industry influencers and members of the media. About her listening session, Berita expresses: I would like to thank everyone who attended the listening on Wednesday night. It was a blissful evening of sharing my journey, and was made more special by my mother&#8217;s presence, as my stage name and third album is named after her. Berita describes her third studio album as a body of work that comes from her soul. Unlike her first two albums that were based on other people s experiences and situations happening in the world respectively, all 14 songs on BERITA have a personal meaning. This album is my dream come full circle. I put my heart and soul into every lyric and melody. Inspired by my growth creatively and as a young woman into an African Jewel, I&#8217;m proud to present my self-titled album, shares Berita. Berita has been very hands on with the creation of a musical master piece that is now her BERITA album. It s been two years of hard work for the African Jewel, and we are glad that today the country gets to finally hear what we believe is her best work to date. BERITA contains music that will appeal to various demographics, and will become yet another great classic album to add to her multi-award winning catalogue of music, expresses Raphael Benza of Vth Season. The music video for Berita s hit single, Ezizweni, with Mobi Dixon is now live on YouTube. Watch it here: &nbsp;