Aspen Pharmacare said on Tuesday that it has noted the announcement by the Competition Commission that it will be investigating it for suspected abuse of dominance in respect of the provision of cancer medication in South Africa. This comes after the Commission said it would be investigating pharmaceutical giants like Roche Holding AG, Pfizer Inc, and Aspen for alleged excessive and price fixing, price discrimination, abuse of dominance, and abuse of patent laws. Aspen said it was committed to full and constructive engagement with the Competition Commission in this investigation. It is reiterated that pharmaceutical prices in South Africa are approved by the Department of Health in terms of the Single Exit Price regulatory framework which establishes a universal fixed price for each pharmaceutical product, the company said. Aspen has not increased pricing of its products outside of this regulatory framework and has clearly demonstrated its commitment to providing quality medicines affordably over many years. The supply of the oncology products in question is no exception. The Competition Commission said it initiated an investigation against Aspen for suspected abuse of dominance by charging excessive prices in the provision of lifesaving cancer medicine in South Africa. Commissioner Tembinkosi Bonakele said they were in possession of information that gives rise to a reasonable suspicion that Aspen has, and continues to engage in the excessive pricing in the provision of certain cancer medicines in South Africa. Bonakele said the Commission was of the view that Aspen appears to be the only supplier of a generic version of busulfan in tablet form. Aspen is currently under investigation by competition authorities in various European countries for alleged excessive pricing. The Italian Competition Authority recently found that Aspen abused its dominant position during negotiations with Italy s drug regulator over the price of four cancer drugs by between 300 percent and 1,500 percent. Similarly, in the UK and Spain, Aspen is alleged to have attempted to sell cancer medicines in Europe for up to 40 times their previous prices. ALSO READ: Competition Commission probes 3 drug giants over cancer meds pricing