Woman should be responsible of her own happiness and not depend on men. My colleague shared with me a story about how girls are always told to get husbands to give them better life.Yes you hard me right; for instance girls are told to get husbands to take them abroad or buy them good cars.Well, girls too can work hard and buy their own big rides. You can take yourself out for that massage if you want and even buy yourself flowers, chocolates and that mouthwatering dinner.Who said women can t? So next time, you hear someone urging young girls to get a husband to take her places or better her life, tell them off.Children should be trained to be independent and the value of hardwork should be cultivated in them as well.Remember you have no control over what someone does or thinks about you.However, you can control the way you respond to problems. So in this edition we have a story about men s fixation with cars and other electronic gadgets that women simply don t understand.Then there is this evolutionary notion that women are more attracted to men with good cars! Many women and now in highly paid jobs and drive big cars as well. I will repeat this; women should work hard and be independent even if they come from very stable families.It is liberating just to have your own money however little it is and spend it how it pleases you. Imagine asking for money for everything? You also grow professionally by setting goals and achieving your set targets.At the end of it all you better the whole community by contributing to the economy through pay as you earn. Did I mention about pumping money back for circulation as you pay for goods and services?And you leave a greater legacy. So look here ladies, let men get fixated with those cars and electronic gadgets, work hard for your own good. You can buy your own car. Who said a man has to buy it for you?Now give yourself a big round of applause, get up and work harder even at home.Though I know what we do with our lives is our own business, doing something you love give you a fulfilling life and happiness and make you choose the life you want.