A farm road near Empangeni Station has emerged as a popular site for the dumping of body bags, Zululand Observer reports. Fred Lubbe initially noticed a number of discarded bags near a dense bush and sugar cane not far from his home late last year. &#8220;In December, I found four bags, one in the sugarcane and the others scattered in the bush on the opposite side of the road. On closer inspection I realised they were empty body bags from the mortuary.&#8221; Lubbe was disturbed by his find, but after some time, the bags vanished. &#8220;On Thursday last week, I noticed more dumped body bags at the same spot and at least four more body bags were seen in the bush. The labels indicated that one belonged to Ngwelezana Hospital, while the other, for an infant, belonged to the Lower Umfolozi War Memorial Hospital. As far as I am concerned this is medical waste and has to be incinerated. It is hazardous material which cannot just be dumped anywhere,&#8221; Lubbe said. The discarded body bags READ MORE:Mortuary strike may end today Empangeni resident Fred Lubbe holds up a label which clearly indicates the name of the deceased PHOTO: Orrin Singh Two officials from the department of health (DoH) and an official from the department of environmental affairs were met by Zululand Observer to clarify the issue. An initial theory that contractors assigned for the removal and disposal of medical waste from the hospitals may be responsible was dismissed by the DoH. &#8220;The DoH has a contract with Compass Waste Medical Services, a reputable company that collects waste from medical facilities across the province and transports it to Durban for disposal,&#8221; said spokesperson for the King Cetshwayo District, Sibongiseni Manqele. Manqele reiterated that the company would not be involved in such illegal activity. &#8220;The DoH distances itself from the illegal dumping of hazardous or contaminated waste owing to the fact that we have a dedicated contractor who deals with the collection and transportation of medical waste to a proper disposal facility. The DoH will investigate the matter together with the department of environmental affairs,&#8221; said Manqele. READ MORE Mortuary strike may end today Caxton News Service For more news your, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter Caxton News Service For more news your, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter