The Chamber of Mines appeared to be at odds with the minister of mineral resources, Mosebenzi Zwane, on Wednesday after it received an invitation to attend a meeting of the Mining Industry Growth Development and Employment Task Team (MIGDETT). The Chamber said it received the invitation to attend the MIGDETT meeting, which is set to take place at 9am on Thursday morning, with less than 24 hours notice, leaving its exact purpose highly suspicious . This comes as Zwane will, almost simultaneously, host a media briefing at 10am in Pretoria about the 2017 Mining Charter on Thursday morning, after the process by the Department of Mineral Resource (DMR) to review and amend the charter was concluded. The MIGDETT meeting is scheduled to take place an hour before a media briefing called by Zwane to discuss the new Mining Charter. MIGDETT was the forum through which the 2010 version of the Charter was negotiated in a highly intensive, inclusive and consultative multi-stakeholder process. Spokesperson Charmane Russell said the Chamber will not be attending the MIGDETT meeting. Russel said the Chamber s office bearers will not be co-opted into participating in an attempt by the department to provide any support into what they believe has been a flawed process. The Chamber has repeatedly expressed its dismay that the Minister and DMR have seen fit not to engage with stakeholders in the same way this time round including through the MIGDETT structure, which has in fact been dormant for the past 18 months, she said. Occasional meetings with individual stakeholders over a lengthy period are no substitute for a proper process that needs to achieve the buy-in of all stakeholders, and in particular the mining industry whose responsibility it is to implement the charter s provisions. Russell said the Chamber will follow Thursday s events closely, and will review the DMR s Charter once it has been made available. The Chamber will later host a briefing for members of the media around noon to address these issues.