Cancer 22 June 23 July You ve got an enormous amount of mental energy today, but don t take on too much. Leave plenty of room in your crowded timetable, or you could end up with a stress headache. Leo 24 July 23 August Cats are fiery creatures and you re in the mood for a feisty debate today. Put your mental energy to good use as you study, do research or work out the solution to a stubborn puzzle or mystery. Virgo 24 August 23 September Avoid taking on too much today, Virgo. Energy is high but so are irritability levels. So steer clear of vexatious people and sensitive topics, as it will be difficult to conceal your true feelings. Libra 24 September 23 October Lively communication is highlighted as the sparks fly between you and a colleague or friend. Don t expect to agree on everything and don t rush. Make sure you check all information thoroughly Scorpio 24 October 22 November You have a strong desire to persuade others to do what YOU want them to do. But if you try to control or manipulate people, then you ll just have a long and exhausting day. So take a chill pill! Sagittarius 23 November 21 December If you are blunt and/or bossy, then you could find yourself deep in a disagreement or misunderstanding with a loved one. So clear communication is the secret to a reasonably stress-free day. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Dramas are likely today, Capricorn, unless you can be super adaptable and stay calm. A loved one or work colleague is feeling frustrated, so don t take negative comments too personally Aquarius 21 January 19 February There may be some disruptions and disagreements today, as others step on your freedom-loving toes. You know what you want to do, but it may not be what others expect or like. Pisces 20 February 20 March If you ve got an ongoing problem with a child, teenager, parent or friend, then avoid rushing in and messing up a sensitive situation. More patience is needed, if you want to help rather than hinder Aries 21 March 20 April Avoid being a bossy Ram today, and strive to be assertive rather than aggressive. When dealing with a sensitive family or work issue, resist the urge to judge others and jump to conclusions. Taurus 21 April 21 May You usually think things through in a careful and thorough way. But someone may try to rush you into a decision today. Take your time. If you hurry your response, you may regret it later on. Gemini 22 May 21 June Emotions and energy levels will fluctuate today so pace yourself. It will be easy to upset others, despite your good intentions. Resist the urge to retaliate. Instead, try to keep your composure.