Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown on Friday announced the appointment of four new interim nonexecutive directors of Eskom in a bid to beef up the board of the embattled power utility. This comes as Eskom appointed Johnny Dladla as the acting group chief executive on Thursday after the interministerial task team rescinded Brian Molefe s reappointment as chief executive. Following that, Ben Ngubane resigned as Eskom chairperson, citing personal reasons, and Brown appointed Zethembe Khoza in his place. During a special general meeting on Friday, Brown announced the appointments of scientists Pulane Molokwane and Batjonile Makhubela, chartered accountant Sathiaseelan Gounden, and auditor Simphiwe Dingaan to the reconstituted Eskom board, saying they would add value to the state-owned enterprise. The new members will join Khoza, Pat Naidoo, Chwayita Madikane and Giovanni Leonardi to the board. Eskom had an annual general meeting on Friday. Brown said she had always indicated that it may be in Eskom s interest to rotate the board, but this would have to be balanced against continuity. The new members, together with the two executives directors, the group chief executive and the group financial officer, will constitute an interim board until their names and others to further strengthen the board are taken to cabinet for approval in the next cycle, Brown said. I believe the interim arrangements represent a new dawn at Eskom, which recorded positive results according to its financial results presented to the AGM today. Brown said Eskom was in a better financial position than it was a year and two years ago. Eskom will announce their integrated financial statements on July 12. I have asked Eskom s new leadership to roll up its collective sleeves and immediately address three areas of primary importance the management of contracts, conflicts of interest, and the quality of coal supplied to Eskom, Brown said. African News Agency (ANA) ALSO READ: New broom(s) eager to sweep Eskom dirt away For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.