Finding and focusing on high-impact HIV areas using data and technology were key to meeting the national goals set out in the South African National Strategic Plan (NSP) on HIV, TB and STIs for 2017 to 2022. In a presentation at the first day of the 8th South African Aids Conference in Durban on Tuesday, delegates heard about the South African National Aids Council s (Sanac) &#8216;Focus for Impact&#8217; interactive web-based application. Sanac s Petro Rousseau described the application as a tool to answer key questions about HIV, such as where high-burden areas are, why they are high burden and what is going to be done to lessen the burden in those areas . The NSP identified 27 high-burden HIV and 19 high incident TB districts that needed focus in order to make maximum impact. According to Sanac, detailed, localised statistical evidence for example, on disease patterns, related social and economic factors, and TB and HIV service uptake are critical tools to help us identify hotspots within these high burden districts . Rousseau said that with refined and improved data it would be easier to determine what increased HIV risks in certain communities, which would give stakeholders the opportunity to make informed decisions about what programmes to implement and what resources were needed. Marrying various data sources would help in understanding geographical patterns in primary healthcare facilities. When secondary data was added to this, the picture would be broadened and allow an understanding of risk profiles for the populations using those primary health care facilities. Using the Ilembe district as an example, Rousseau said that the area had a positivity rate of 14.5%. Routine data from the health department and others would allow researchers to drill down into KwaDukuza local municipality, where what was happening at a ward level could be studied. This could be taken down as far as facility level, she said, by examining data from clinics in the area. But we must also understand what is happening in the community, not only in health facilities, she said. It was important to understand the needs of various age groups and to use available tools such as the South African Multidimensional Poverty Index which used national census data to measure poverty when considering a multisectoral response. Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa who also chairs SanacC launched the NSP in Mangaung on May 31. In 2016, 7.1 million South Africans were estimated to be HIV positive, according to Sanac. An estimated 270 000 new infections occurred in the same year, down from 360 000 in 2012.