The process to decide who will become South Africa s new national cricket coach began on Friday with the closing date for applications and Highveld Lions coach Geoff Toyana has confirmed he has applied for the job. With current coach Russell Domingo seemingly reluctant to continue after his contract ends in August, a panel comprising Norman Arendse, Rihan Richards, Oupa Nkagisang, Gary Kirsten and Eric Simons will now deliberate over the applications and make a recommendation to the Cricket South Africa (CSA) board. Also read: Russell Domingo has 48 hours to try and keep his Proteas job Toyana, who has won four trophies in his five seasons in charge of the Lions and developed numerous players for the Proteas, confirmed he felt ready to step up to international level. Yes, I ve put my CV up for the position. Obviously as a player I knew I was not good enough to play for South Africa, so the next step was to coach and it has always been my dream to coach at international level. I ve learnt a lot at franchise level through the ups and downs and I know I still have a lot to learn. But I feel what I ve been through, dealing with players and their successes and failures, has prepared me well, the 43-year-old said. Having battled through an 84-match first-class career with a batting average of just 24.49, Toyana has more empathy than most when it comes to helping cricketers through the diversity of the game. As a player, I know the trials and tribulations of the game, being dropped, not being successful, I know how it feels. I can relate to the guys when they are struggling with form or when they are doing well. Cricket is a sport in which there is a high rate of failure, the bottom line is that you will fail sometimes and it s about how you fight through that and come back, Toyana said. Quinton de Kock, Aaron Phangiso, Chris Morris, Kagiso Rabada, Temba Bavuma, Hardus Viljoen, Stephen Cook, Eddie Leie, Mangaliso Mosehle and Dwaine Pretorius have all become international cricketers under Toyana s watch at the Lions. Malibongwe Maketa also confirmed he has not applied for the head coach post, but the Warriors mentor is being tipped for a role as one of the assistant coaches for the national team. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.