Introduction A small little tuning shop, AMG, came about in 1967 when Hans-Werner Aufrecht (A) and his partner Erhard Melcher (M), combined the first letters of their surname with the first letter of Aufrecht s birthplace of Grossaspach (G). . Fast forward some 50 years and AMG is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Daimler AG, and the Affalterbach-based company employs around 1 600 employees, all dedicated to deliver the brand s promise of Driving Performance . And there is no sign of slowing down. AMG started 2017, its anniversary year, with record figures under its belt, after delivering almost 100 000 vehicles in 2016, and thus growing by more than 40 percent while being in the middle of the biggest strategic model initiatives in the company s history. Today, sports car enthusiasts can choose from a large selection of the hardcore AMG GT family, the popular eight-cylinder models in the 63 series, the four-cylinder 45 series models in the compact segment and the recently introduced 43 series models. 2016 saw the biggest strategic model initiative in the history of Mercedes-AMG: with over ten new models being added to the product portfolio. From January 2017 performance-minded customers are able to choose from over 50 models. In each category, MercedesAMG boasts an impressive selection: from the most powerful production four-cylinder engine in the compact segment to sporty elegant models with a superior twelve-cylinder engine, from saloons and estates to a broad range of SUVs and coupes, to cabriolets and different types of roadsters. The available technology is among the best on offer in the respective vehicle categories, ranging from optimised rear-wheel drive to state-of-the-art all-wheel drive, as well as from a dual-clutch transmission to a sporty ninegear automatic transmission. Customer Sports 24 Stunden N rburgring 2016 With a total of 18 overall victories and 32 other podium finishes, the international customer and performance teams celebrated a sensational season in 2016 with the new Mercedes-AMG GT3. Renowned teams will contest both the highly popular IMSA Series as well as the PWC, the Pirelli World Challenge. The teams will also benefit from optimal support from Mercedes-AMG Customer Racing in the USA. AMG Performance centres Mercedes-AMG Showroom in Tokio Setagaya // Mercedes-AMG showroom in Tokyo Setagaya As part of the strategic broadening of the portfolio to over 50 models, the number of AMG Performance Centres has also undergone expansion. The next stage in the development of the AMG Performance Centres will see AMG sales and service outlets with a distinct architecture in Japan, Australia and the Middle East, with the first already open in Tokyo. Exclusive AMG private lounge . Another central component of customer support is the online AMG Private Lounge. The online platform invites AMG owners to share their passion for the brand with other AMG enthusiasts. At present, the AMG Private Lounge Community has more than 55 000 accredited members worldwide. Insider knowledge, direct contact with Affalterbach, exclusive events and opportunities to communicate and exchange ideas give the brand a more approachable face. No other car manufacturer offers anything comparable. Milestones AMG GT R; 2016 In 1971, the AMG 300 SEL 6.8 of Aufrecht and Melcher, Gro aspach claimed victory completely out of the blue in its class and took second place overall in the 24-hour race at the Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps. Collaboration with MercedesBenz began in 1990. The C 36 AMG, launched in 1993, was the first result from the agreement. In 2005, Mercedes-AMG became a wholly owned subsidiary of Daimler AG and 2009 saw the introduction of the Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG, the first vehicle to be developed entirely by Mercedes-AMG. AMG branched into motor racing with the SLS AMG GT3 in 2011. This was followed by the introduction of the Mercedes-AMG GT in 2014 and the launch of the 43 series models in 2015. AMG concept . As part of its 50th anniversary Mercedes-AMG is this year celebrating not only the successful past and present; above all it is looking forward. With the show car Mercedes-AMG GT Concept the sports car and performance brand is giving an indication of the alternative drive configurations AMG is designing. Over and above this, the fourdoor coupe heralds the further extension of the AMG GT family. The third model series after the SLS AMG and AMG GT is now being completely autonomously developed at the company s headquarters in Affalterbach. AMG Project One . The AMG Hypercar, which will be presented at the International Motor Show in Frankfurt later this year, illustrates how they are defining the performance of the future at AMG. Based on their experience in F1 and with the AMG GT Concept AMG will in future develop segment-specific hybrids with an impressive performance gain which not only ensure an incomparable output, but also maximum efficiency. The car should feature balanced axle load distribution along with a fully variable AMG Performance 4MATIC+ all-wheel drive system that is also supported by electric motors. Besides this, according to the principle of Torque Vectoring, every wheel can be allocated torque individually. The result: the driver directly experiences a tangible increase in performance. The battery is also charged whilst the vehicle is being driven, so you will always have the full amount of electrical power available along with three operating modes that can be preselected via the electric drive unit.