Kwaito king Arthur Mafokate&#8217;s rumoured girlfriend, Busisiwe Twala, popularly known as Cici, has broken her silence on reports that she had smoked a peace pipe with her allegedly abusive boyfriend. In a statement, Cici denied claims that she had made peace with Mafokate and that she had dropped the assault case against him. &#8220;As far as I know, the charges against Arthur are still pending, and I have no intention of dropping them,&#8221; she said. Read her full statement below: pic.twitter.com/XxA4HisyhS &mdash; CiCi (@cici_worldwide) June 21, 2017 Cici recently opened a case of assault against Mafokate, who she called my boyfriend in a police statement. Mafokate allegedly dragged her on the street with his car during an argument after receiving a phone call from another woman while they were in the bedroom on Thursday evening, reported Sunday World. Mafokate reportedly answered the call outside, leaving Cici suspecting he was talking to a nyatsi. After hearing a giggle from Mafokate, Cici then asked him who he was speaking to, but he refused to reveal the identity of the woman who made him giggle. An argument then started after she tried to grab the phone from him. Mafokate then went outside and got into his car while cursing and telling her not to argue with him in the presence of his children. She went after him and pleaded with him to open the door of the car, but Mafokate refused and allegedly drove off while she was still holding the handle. She was reportedly admitted to Waterfall Hospital in Midrand for the injuries she sustained during the incident. Mafokate was subsequently arrested, but reportedly opened a countercharge against Cici. Police told the publication Mafokate claimed Cici assaulted him with chairs and tables while they were wrestling for his phone. He further said he was not aware she was still holding on to the car when he drove off in an attempt to avoid the escalation of the fight. Mafokate appeared at the Midrand Magistrates Court for common assault and was released on R500 bail. The case was adjourned indefinitely for further investigation. Also read: Chomee: Arthur is a sweet man, not a woman beater