Commuters travelling on trains were told to expect delays of an hour or more on Wednesday afternoon as Metrorail effects repairs to its infrastructure cause by stormy weather conditions. Customers are advised to allow for extended travelling time of 60+ minutes. Metrorail reiterated their commitment to expedite repairs and the re-opening of Transnet lines to assist commuters, Metrorail said in a statement. Trains on the Northern line were operating on a Saturday timetable and would not travel beyond Firgrove Station. Muldersvlei trains would not travel beyond Stellenbosch. Limited bus services would be available between Firgrove and Strand and between Stellenbosch and Muldersvlei. While trains would operate between Cape Town and Bellvile, there would be no buses or trains available between Bellvile and Wellington or Muldersvlei. Metrorail advised affected commuters to find alternative transport. A bus shuttle would replace train number 3531 between Wellington and Worcester. The Malmesbury service was suspended until Transnet reopens the line. All transnet lines are closed with no freight trains operating for safety reasons. Some commuters travelling the Monte Vista or Century City line would also have to find alternative transport as the weather has caused signal failures between Ysterplaat and Kentemade. Trains would be rerouted via Salt River. Trains between Ysterplaat and Mutual have been authorised to operate manually. Trains on the Southern line would be operational by with extended travelling times , with a bus service operating between Fish Hoek and Simonstown. Between Plumstead and Wynberg only one line was operable for trains going in both directions. Only one line was available on the Cape Flats route as workers remove trees which were uprooted and landed on the railway line between Ottery and Southfield. On routes service by GABS, Metrorail weekly and monthly ticket holders may use buses after peak hours. Their buses will continue to operate until all commuters have been assisted. Metrorail has urged commuters to listen to their radio stations or consult Metrorail social media platforms for regular updates on the service. Metrorail updates are available on @CapeTownTrain on twitter and Cape Metrorail on Facebook. People can also dial 0800 65 64 63. African News Agency (ANA)