Sibanye Gold on Friday said there was an illegal and unprotected strike at its Cooke operations near Randfontein, south-west of Johannesburg, following the implementation of measures to combat illegal mining. Sibanye said illegal mining threatened the sustainability of the Cooke operations and posed a significant risk to the safety of employees and the surrounding communities. The gold and platinum group metals miner said the strike has been associated with a significant amount of threats and intimidation and 16 employees have regrettably been seriously assaulted whilst attempting to report for work. Sibanye said despite communication with employees and agreement from the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), the majority union, employees at Cooke embarked on the unprotected strike prior to the night-shift on Tuesday. Wayne Robinson, Sibanye s chief executive of gold division, said illegal mining was a significant threat, not only to the safety of their employees and surrounding communities but to the viability of operations. Despite adequate communication with employees and agreement with the major unions, this strike action supports our view that there is significant collusion taking place throughout the industry that supports this illegal and dangerous activity, Robinson said. Seventy-one illegal miners have surfaced from underground and been arrested since the unprotected strike started, highlighting the extent of the problem. Robinson said Sibanye condemned any violence and intimidation against employees and would take appropriate action against any perpetrators. The mine has since increased security in the areas surrounding the mines and routes to the operations in order to ensure the safety of employees who wish to report for work. Sibanye has also implemented dismissal procedures against striking employees after an interdict against the strike was granted by the Labour court on Thursday. Meanwhile, the NUM blamed the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) for violence, alleging that members of the rival union had attacked its members. The NUM is disturbed and deeply saddened that 16 NUM members were attacked and assaulted by alleged Amcu members while going to work on Wednesday morning at Sibanye s Gold Cooke operations in Westonaria, the union said in a statement. The NUM can confirm that four of the 16 members who were attacked are in critical condition and three were airlifted to Milpark hospital. Amcu was not immediately available for comment on Friday afternoon. The NUM called on the law enforcement agencies to investigate and arrest the perpetrators of the alleged crime.