Moody s Investors Service downgraded South Africa s rating to Baa3 on Friday, and assigned a negative outlook. Moody s also downgraded the government s senior unsecured short-term program rating to (P)P-3 from (P)P-2. The rating actions conclude the review for downgrade that commenced on April 3. The key drivers for the downgrade are the weakening of South Africa s institutional framework; reduced growth prospects reflecting policy uncertainty and slower progress with structural reforms; and the continued erosion of fiscal strength due to rising public debt and contingent liabilities, Moody s said in a statement. The Baa3 rating recognises a number of important strengths that continue to support South Africa s creditworthiness. However, the negative outlook reflects the continued downside risks for growth and fiscal consolidation associated with the political outlook. Moody s added that over the medium-term, economic and fiscal strength would remain sensitive to investor confidence and uncertainty surrounding political developments, including prospects for structural reforms intended to raise potential growth and flexibility in fiscal expenditures . In a related decision, Moody s also downgraded to Baa3 from Baa2 the backed senior unsecured debt issued by ZAR Sovereign Capital Fund Propriety Limited, a special purpose vehicle whose debt issuance is ultimately the obligation of the South African government, and assigned a negative outlook. South Africa s long-term local-currency bond and deposit ceilings were lowered to A2 from A1, and the long-term and short-term foreign-currency bond ceilings lowered to A3/P-2 from A2/P-1, respectively, Moody s said. The long-term foreign-currency bank deposits ceilings was lowered to Baa3 from Baa2, while the short-term foreign-currency bank deposits ceiling was lowered to P-3 from P-2. Moody s said that the downgrade reflected its view that the recent political developments suggest a weakening of the country s institutional strength, which casts doubt over the strength and stability of the recovery in growth and stabilisation of the debt-to-GDP ratio over the near-term. African News Agency (ANA)