Hot on the heels of charges being dismissed for contravening the SA Citizen Act, forensic consultant Paul O Sullivan has fired back by laying charges of unlawful arrest, kidnapping and torture. In his complaint, opened up at OR Tambo International on Saturday, O Sullivan names retired Lieutenant General Vinesh Monoo, warrant officer Kobus Vlok, Major General Prince Mokotedi, Colonel AK Hoosein, Captain Cecil Mangqalaza, Captain Bonisile Mkupa, a Lieutenant Ngogodlo and other persons, unknown to me, but likely to include NPA officials as part of the conspiracy to silence me, by bringing malicious prosecutions against me on trumped-up charges . O Sullivan s complaint centres on his being arrested before he could leave for Heathrow with his daughters. Prior to his arrest, O Sullivan had been bombarding senior police officials with emails accusing them of protecting criminals and demanding action be taken on a number of cases he had opened. It was when he received no response to his emails, or his cases, that O Sullivan fired off his by now famous Stop me if you can email wherein he dared police members to arrest him before he went to London to tell the world about crime in South Africa. Arrest him they did, and, now with the case dismissed, O Sullivan wants revenge. He also intends to sue civilly once all his other cases have, he hopes, been disposed of. My claim will include at least the following, O Sullivan said. The kidnapping and torture during April last year and again in February (when he and his assistant were arrested for investigating now suspended Lieutenant General Kgomotso Phahlane) R10 million, conspiring with Radovan Krejcir and others to murder me R10 million, the unlawful campaign of defamation and vilification since April last year to now R10 million. He also wants to sue for multiple fake charges brought against me since April R10 million, loss of family and matrimonial amenity over extended periods R10 million and wants R40 million for unlawful attacks on my character that resulted in a drastic decrease in the turnover of my business as well as R10 million for legal fees. The docket was handed over to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate on Saturday. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter