Siyasanga Mbambani, the state photographer who was involved in a messy text scandal last month with Radebe, has now reportedly turned her attention to her ex-boyfriend, Luyanda Potwana, who presents Nyan&#8217;Nyan. Move! magazine reports that Siyasanga is aware that Luyanda has moved on, but she won&#8217;t give up on trying to get back together with him. Insiders reportedly say Luyanda has even gone as far as to block the messages sent by Siyasanga in a bid to save his new relationship. &#8220;She is still obsessed with Luyanda and believes she still stands a chance of getting back together with him. However, the problem is that Luyanda is now in a relationship. But Siyasanga sends him kinky text messages as she knows he can&#8217;t resist her. &#8220;She still feels that Luyanda is her man, even though she dumped him, thinking he was broke,&#8221; said the source. Another source said Luyanda was scared he would be exposed on his show. He declined to comment to Move! and referred questions to his publicist, who said he would not comment on his client&#8217;s personal matters. Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe apologised unreservedly last month for exchanging explicit text and email communication with the 29-year-old Union Buildings staffer Mbambani. The senior minister s spokesperson Phillip Musekwa said he deeply regrets that the exchanges took place in the first place and would like to apologise to the country Mbambani her family, his own wife and children. The Sunday Times reported that Radebe, 65, had sent improper messages to the presidential photographer from the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), requesting pictures of her private parts, which he spelled &#8220;C.l.i.t.&#8221; Musekwa said Radebe admitted the incident and said it was poor judgment on his part. He is worried about the welfare of the woman who is implicated. She will take the social media pressure of what is now out there, he said. READ MORE: Yizo Yizo&#8217;s Gunman in abusive relationship with wife, died for mistress reports For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.