Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane spent his Youth Day morning marching alongside young people in Phoenix, Durban, where he urged residents to take up the fight against drug dealers in their community. The fight against the people who sell drugs in our communities and who use children to sell them to other children is a battle that can only be won if we all stand together and fight it on all fronts, Maimane told those who marched with him to the Phoenix police station. And by all I mean parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters. I mean teachers and principals, preachers and social workers. I mean politicians, police officers and doctors. Maimane urged residents to help police in their quest to arrest and prosecute drug dealers. Thank u KZN. Beautiful day, we must continue to fight for young people to have freedom they can use. #no2drugs #jobs4youth #June16 #educate pic.twitter.com/8XpdlTmMf4 &mdash; Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) June 16, 2017 Nothing destroys the life of a child like the effects of drug addiction. Nothing steals their youth faster than growing up in a culture of drug abuse, violence and gangsterism. Some of you have already lost children to these dangers. Many more of you are watching helplessly as your boys and girls are targeted by these predators who bring these things into your community. Maimane went on to criticise government for its slow reestablishment of a specialised drug unit. What we finally got, a year after President Zuma promised to re-introduce such a unit in his 2016 SONA speech, was 40 people sitting in the Hawks. It is hardly surprising that this understaffed office has made no impact at all in the fight against drugs. READ: @MmusiMaimane full #YouthDay address: We cannot allow drugs to steal the hope of our youth &#8211; https://t.co/fZPesiWd0n pic.twitter.com/uDiwEKXgYP &mdash; Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) June 16, 2017 Earlier Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane will lead a Youth Day march to the Phoenix police station in eThekwini in Kwazulu-Natal on Friday. In a statement on Friday morning, the DA said stronger action needed to be taken by government and the police service to tackle drug abuse and crime among the youth. The DA said it would call for the reintroduction of specialised police units to target specific crimes. The fact that there has been a 325% increase in drug and gang-related crime since the Narcotics Bureau was disbanded in 2004 highlights the desperate need for specialised units to ensure that those who sell drugs to our young people are put behind bars, the party said. Maimane will hand over a memorandum to police detailing the party s demands to end crime among the youth. The march will start at 10am at Chartford Sports Ground, Corner of Chartford Drive and Avonford Crescent, Phoenix, and end at the Phoenix police station. African News Agency (ANA) Youth Day: We were kids and fearless For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.