Positive Disruption the Corporate Sufi Way is a powerful force.It entails totally rethinking how you and your team approach business.And once you start taking massive action, others will quickly join in.So get serious, look deeper, and decide what needs to be done to transform yourself, your business and your team. What are you waiting for?The woman was strolling through a shopping mall when she noticed a poster announcing a new flower shop. When she went in, she got a shock; she saw no vases, no arrangements, and it was God in person who stood behind the counter. You can ask for whatever you want, said God. I want to be happy. I want peace, money, the capacity to be understood. I want to go to heaven when I die. And I want all this to be granted to my friends too. God opened a few pots that were on the shelf behind him, removed some grains from inside, and handed them to the woman. Here you have the seeds, He said. Begin to plant them, because here we don t sell the fruits. Instead of waiting for life to change, disrupt your inertia and become your own turnaround specialist! If you wait for someone else to do it, you will wait a long time or, most likely, it will never happen.Here are few tips to get started:1. Set your goal Do you know what you want? Often the goals that peers and parents have for us are disguised as our goals. So achieving them really doesn t make us as happy as we expected. Hence look deeper. Ask yourself, If I had 40 million dollars, what work would I have been doing? Or if you want to acquire a skill, list down the ways it could positively impact you. Once you are clear about what you want, write out your specific, time-bound and measurable goals, broken down into short, medium, and long-term goals. Set a powerful statement expressing that goal and paste it in front of your bed or any place where you see it daily.2.Practice enlightened persistence - this is the ability to differentiate between what is worth persisting in and what should be let go. Enlightenment is a strong word it implies the goal you are chasing is larger than yourself. The Corporate Sufi philosophy very much encourages such goals. Because. If you chase the wrong goals, you will feel empty even if you reach them.3. Learn from the best - Do you know how to achieve your goal? How do you go from where you are to where you want to be? If you don t know, find out from others who have done it. You will save a ton of time and anxiety.4. Be authentic - Only when you are honest can you face reality and take corrective or necessary action.5. Push yourself out of your comfort zone daily Most new learning happens outside of our comfort zone. Hence a critical part of being a turnaround specialist is pushing you out of your comfort zone and attempting something new and meaningful every day. This also includes confronting your deeply held fears or beliefs that are limiting your potential.6. Don t wait. If you want to turn around your life, begin. As the saying goes: If not, why not? If not you, who? If not now, when?