In what could be perceived as a lack of confidence in the leadership abilities of KwaZulu-Natal s health MEC, provincial treasury has on Thursday, taken over administration of procurement at the failing provincial health department. Provincial Treasury will be making a Section 18 intervention in terms of the Public Finance Management Act to temporarily control the supply chain management function in the [provincial health] department until such time as the necessary financial management controls are in place, according to KwaZulu-Natal premier, Willies Mchunu. Mchunu said he gave serious consideration to the calls to fire provincial health MEC, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, and decided that Dhlomo should not be axed. In my assessment, you can t lay the blame solely on him, he said. Mchunu was speaking to journalists at the KwaZulu-Natal legislature on Thursday afternoon following a tense sitting that saw opposition parties calling for Dhlomo s head. Dhlomo and MEC for finance, Belinda Scott, had earlier briefed legislature about the state of the province s health department. They joined Mchunu at the press briefing. Mchunu said treasury s intervention would involve taking stock of all tenders, many of which were running on a month-to-month basis. These would be converted into proper contracts , according to Mchunu. Government has set timelines the contract register will be finalised by the end of August 2017, and all tender backlogs should have been dealt with by no later than January 2018. It is planned for all period contracts to be finalised by May 2019, he said. Dhlomo and his department were singled out in a South African Human Rights Commission report (SAHRC) published last week as having violated the rights of oncology patients at the Addington and Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospitals to have access to health care services as a result of their failure to apply with applicable norms and standards set out in legislation and policies . In line with the information secured during its investigation of the complaint, it appears there has been conspicuous failure to provide adequate oncology services in the KZN province for a considerable time, according to the report. The report found that the measures the provincial health department told the SAHRC it would put in place to end the crisis were inadequate and unacceptable . Mchunu spoke about the challenges in the provincial health department in general and said the department was ready to respond to the HRCSA recommendations and would work with the commission. Mchunu said that many of their challenges were being experienced throughout the country, such as an adverse economic climate that impacted on the health sector most importantly through rising cost of medicines and medical equipment . The public health sector was facing challenges in human resource management, financial management, supply chain management, ageing infrastructure and old equipment, and this was why provincial government had intervened, he said. He said that the health department s internal controls were weak due to a lack of capacity . Treasury will deploy resources to strengthen this capacity. Immediate appointment of resources from the various provincial treasury panels of consultants will be made available for a period of approximately eight months, he said. This will be done to identify gaps and shortcomings in the department s internal control environment, to provide training where required, and to assist where required. The lack of maintenance of medical equipment was being addressed, he said. The proposed supply chain management intervention would focus on how best to procure medical equipment to ensure that maintenance arrangements were strengthened so that the risk of equipment downtime was eliminated or reduced drastically. The health budget would be re-prioritised to ensure that critical posts were filled, he said. The human resources intervention included the appointment of the head of the clinical unit at Grey s Hospital Oncology Unit.