After two days of devastating fires across the Garden Route which saw thousands of residents displaced and more than 300 lose their homes - locals and emergency workers could breathe a hopeful sigh of relief on Thursday night when most fires had been contained. The worst affected areas include Knysna where authorities confirmed that about 3000 residents had been evacuated as large parts of the coastal holiday town went up in flames. Early indications reveal that about 300 structures had been destroyed in the area. Neighbouring town Plettenberg Bay also saw large scale evacuations with about 1000 people having been forced to flee their homes as the fire ripped through the town s Kranshoek and Whale Rock areas. About 30 homes are believed to have been destroyed. With all local resources having been activated and assistance from neighbouring areas as well as nationally, by Thursday night authorities in both towns confirmed that while firefighters were still working around the clock, most of the fires had been contained. The Eden disaster management team also confirmed that there were no longer any runaway fires and that aerial support had been utilised for about an hour late Thursday afternoon. We are not completely out of the woods yet. Firefighters are still dealing with flare-ups, Knysna municipal spokesman Christopher Bezuidenhout said on Thursday night. Bitou municipal spokesman Howard Swartz confirmed a similar situation in Plettenberg Bay. There are still places smoldering and there flare-ups every now and again, but so far the fire seems to be under control, Swartz said. Eden district disaster management confirmed firefighters had responded to at least 26 fires along the Garden Route over the past two days. We are good for now, but if Mother Nature decides to take a turn for the worst, we could be back at square one again, Swartz said. In both areas authorities have started counting the costs of the devastation. Our first priority was to contain the fires, it is only now that were are able to establish the extent of the damage. The thick smoke has also made it very difficult to ascertain the exact destruction, Swartz said. In the meantime several relief efforts are underway along the Garden Route with donations from across the country being sent to the affected areas. -African News Agency (ANA) To follow the latest, check out the live Twitter feed below: #KnysnaFires Tweets &nbsp; The devastating fires in the Knysna area are far from being contained. This is according to Gerhard Otto, head of Eden District Disaster Management. Otto spoke to the George Herald after a briefing with the Western Cape Premier Helen Zille at the Eden District Municipality Disaster Centre on Thursday afternoon. A joint operation of government emergency services is making all efforts trying to put down the fire which runs all the way to Plettenberg Bay. According to Otto, the first fire started in the Kruisfontein plantation to the east of Knysna which could have been caused by someone lighting a match in the forest. We are investigating a case of arson. I was informed that the second fire on the western side in the Karatara area could be related to a controlled burn that was done four days ago. We believe that the strong berg wind caused a smoking ember to catch alight. There is a false sense of security in the area as there is a lull in the wind, but we are expecting the wind to pick-up this evening. The fire has so far destroyed over 140 to 150 houses in the greater Knysna area and about 25 homes on the millionaire s mile between the Beacon Isle Hotel and Robberg Nature Reserve, said Otto. Helen Zille leaving the JOC heading to Knysna this afternoon. Picture: Zolani Sinxo At George Hospital, GO GEORGE buses are transporting patients who were evacuated from the Knysna Hospital. Dr Zilla North, the hospital&#8217;s medical commander for the fires taking place in the Garden Route, said, &#8220;Patients were evacuated from Knysna Hospital due to the intense smoke in Knysna. &#8220;Unfortunately we have also admitted a fire fighter who was badly burnt while fighting the fires last night.&#8221; &nbsp; Earlier While most of the devastating fire that swept through parts of Plettenberg Bay on Wednesday and Thursday had been brought under control by Thursday afternoon, firefighters remained on the scene to take care of flare-ups, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald. There were large-scale evacuations in various areas in Plettenberg Bay, including the Kranshoek, Whale Rock and Longships areas, over the past two days and rough calculations suggested that at least 30 homes had been destroyed. Fire rages in Plettenberg Bay. Picture: Jan Venter, Shutterspeed Images GoGeorge buses had been deployed to help evacuate residents threatened by the fire and displaced locals gathered at various evacuation points, including schools and community halls across town. The fire started in the Kruisfontein area outside Knysna and spread to the Kranshoek area on Wednesday morning. It then moved along the coast and cutting back inland towards the Cairnbrogie Estate. By Wednesday night the Whale Rock area near Robberg was next in the fire&#8217;s path. Fire rages in Plettenberg Bay. Picture: Jan Venter, Shutterspeed Images In Knysna, water bombing may become necessary for fire still burning in inaccessible areas. Fires were not yet under control, said Knysna fire chief Clinton Manuel on Thursday afternoon. Manuel updated the fire situation. This means that we do not want the fire to run away with us again and we need to prevent this. He said firefighters from as far afield as Cape Town were currently fighting fires in the town area and a fire past the Kruisfontein area as well as others. The damage in Knysna. Picture: Hannes Visser Water bombing areas has now become an option and Manuel said that an exploratory flight would be made to consider water bombing in inaccessible areas in the wind. We are looking at areas where the wind could change or intensify, using all our crew and trying to overcome with all the resources we have, said Manuel. Shortly after Manuel s announcement, the sounds of choppers flying over the Knysna-Plett Herald building in Spring Street, central town, could be heard. He said headway was being made in restoring services to the community, including electricity and water. The damage in Knysna. Picture: Hannes Visser Earlier The death toll from the severe weather conditions in the Western Cape reached nine on Thursday, the provincial government said. Unfortunately, we need to announce there s another fatality, we just received the news that we found a three-year-old body, bringing the total fatalities to nine since the disaster started, MEC Anton Bredell said in a media briefing with his human settlements and finance counterparts. The body of the child was found in a burnt outbuilding in Welbedacht, Knysna. The Southern Cape town has been ravaged by fires, fanned by gale force winds. On Wednesday, a family of three a woman, her husband and their child died in a fire in Rheenendal, outside Knysna. The other deaths were in the Cape, which experienced heavy rains, gale force winds, thunder and lightning. The fatalities included four people, who died in a fire in Kraaifontein caused by lightning, while another death was confirmed in Lavender Hill due to a building collapse. A street in Knysna Heights. Destroyed by the #KnysnaFire via Cape Talk pic.twitter.com/1WXPjgqaBq &mdash; Storm Report SA (@StormReportSA1) June 8, 2017 Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela said 827 informal structures in the Peninsula were destroyed, with 2 500 people displaced. In Knysna, at least 8 000 people were evacuated, and are being accommodated in community halls. The Brenton and Belevedere areas of Knysna suffered extensive damage. We are engaging with the MEC of finance to see how we can engage our partners at municipal level to ensure people are resettled, said Madikizela. He said the rebuild programme would commence on Friday when the weather was expected to clear up. Finance MEC Ivan Meyer said he had invoked section 25 of the Public Finance Management Act that allows him to access emergency funding to assist affected areas. I ve already asked the provincial treasury this coming weekend to assist us with assessing the scale of this particular problem. Next Wednesday, I will go to the cabinet and put some proposals on the table to deal with this crisis, he said. Sporadic fires continue to blaze around Knysna. Firefighters continue to battle the flames despite the rain. #KnysnaFire @HeraldPE pic.twitter.com/DUmncxgLze &mdash; Deneesha Pillay (@deneeshapillay) June 8, 2017 Meyer s office was in contact with the diplomatic corps in Cape Town to seek donations, food, blankets and other relief for the victims of the adverse weather. During the media briefing it was announced the Knysna fire was moving towards Plettenberg Bay. At least 100 people have been evacuated from the Robber and Piesang Valley area. The rest of Plettenberg Bay has been placed on standby for possible evacuations. The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) on Thursday said five airforce helicopters were on standby. Three would assist firefighters in Knysna, while the other two would help with evacuations in the rest of the storm-hit Western Cape. The choppers were, however, still grounded due to the weather. Due to the wind speed and severity levels at the moment, all deployed air elements, civilian and military, are unable to take to the skies, the SANDF said. The SANDF would also deploy troops to patrol Knysna to protect homes and businesses from looting in the evacuated areas. The SANDF will also deploy water tankers to assist the Provincial Emergency Services battle the raging fires. Western Cape Disaster Management chief director Colin Diener said, other than the Eden District Municipality, which had assisted with firefighting efforts in Knysna, two trucks and two crew from the Overberg were dispatched, as well as seven fire trucks and crews from the City of Cape Town. Working on Fire had deployed 12 teams consisting of 24 firefighters each, while 10 other teams from outside the province were on standby. We moved 100 firefighters and 14 strike units of Cape Nature from their areas into the Southern Cape to assist, said Diener, adding that Volunteer Wildlife Services were also lending assistance. At least 34 schools were destroyed in the province. Assessments were still being done to determine damage to bulk infrastructure and health facilities. The City of Cape Town sent resources to Knysna to help evacuate its hospital. A command unit from Emergency Medical Services moved in there, and started to evacuate the hospital, which was carried out successfully overnight, Diener said. Western Cape Premier Helen Zille, accompanied by Transport and Public Workers MEC Donald Grant, Tourism and Economic Development MEC Alan Winde and Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo, were expected to visit Knysna on Thursday afternoon. The MECs said there was currently a humanitarian crisis in Knysna. Provincial disaster management officials said they had received large amounts of donation a courier company had offered to move to the Southern Cape. Meanwhile, #OperationSA and the Al-Imdaad Foundation said it was aiming to raise at least R1 million in 24 hours to help the victims of the storms in the Cape and the fires in Knysna and Plettenberg Bay. The money will go directly to the Al-Imdaad Foundation, who have teams on standby to buy essential items such as food, blankets and clothing. We will deliver the aid without delays, OperationSA s Yusuf Abramjee said, adding volunteers were on standby to assist in distributing the aid. -ANA Earlier At least five people have died in the Knysna fires, which are still not under control, while damage to property is beyond calculable at this stage, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald. On Wednesday three people, a man, his wife and their son died in Rheenendal when they could not escape the flames. An elderly man who lives in Brenton had a heart attack and died. A four-year-old girl was found dead by her father on Thursday morning, in Welbedaght. There are no further details about this death. By midday on Thursday, no other deaths have been reported to the police, but an update will follow. Sergeant Chris Spies said patients from the Knysna provincial hospital were evacuated on Wednesday night, and are now being looked after at Loerie Park in the squash courts, ablution facilities and the clubhouse. Spies said that 21 emergency centres would be set up. In the meantime, Spies has advised homeless people to go to community halls in Chris Hani, Khayalethu, Loerie Park and an area that has been set up just behind Mitchell s Brewery in Waterfront Drive. Fire chief Clinton Manuel said the Knysna fires were still not under control, but the rain, which is now falling, will help and additional resources are onboard. Firefighters from Cape Town, the Overberg, Overstrand, George, Oudtshoorn and all of Knysna s firefighting teams are working with Working On Fire, including the Southern Cape Fire protection services. In an interview, Manuel said although the N2, Main Road, was now open, he warned people to drive very carefully because of the thick smog. Roads to Rheenendal and to Brenton are still closed. Manuel said the firefighting operation had been broken into six sectors to make it more manageable. The sectors are Elandskraal, which includes Karatara and Rheenendal, the Concordia sector, which includes all the northern areas like White Location, Dam-se-Bos, the Pezula sector, which includes Fernwood, Hunter s Home and Hornlee, the Belvidere Centre, which includes Brenton-on-Lake and Brenton-on-Sea and Buffalo Bay. A town sector has also been allocated, which includes areas from Pezula to Eastford, Welbedaght to Knysna Heights. The sixth sector is Kruisfontein, which includes areas out of town towards Plettenberg Bay. Manuel s plea was for the public to please not even try phoning the municipality fire services number as the high number of calls is causing the entire phone system to crash. Many small shops are closed in Knysna on Thursday. Checkers is only allowing five people into the store at one time, owing to a staff shortage. Big shops like Pick &#8216;n Pay and Food Lovers Market are open. The damage to homes and institutions will become clearer during the course of the day, but it is known that Oakhill School was affected by the fire. How people are affected People from all over Knysna who were evacuated from their homes on Wednesday night gathered at the Knysna Yacht Club, which opened its doors to those in need. Pets, families, folk from as far afield as White Location to Belvidere gathered in a surreal atmosphere watching the fire burning on either side of the estuary. The floor became a bed to those who stayed the entire night. &#8220;Surreal&#8221; is the only way to describe the atmosphere as people helped each other, encouraged each other and even made jokes. The biggest worry for most was that they had not rescued: their passports. Others thought of sentimental items such as photographs. One women remembered a brand new jacket she had bought. People joked about their entire lives being wiped out, from birth certificates to their qualifications to all the important documents they owned. For some that has come true today. One man joked that he hoped the whole of Knysna was not insured by the same company and another person chipped in and said that most insurance companies do not cover natural disasters. Tessa Jones and her husband Andrew, who were at the Yacht Club last night, went home in the early hours of Thursday morning to find they had lost their entire home in Eastford, burnt to the ground. It is also believed that founder member of the Simola Hillclimb, Chick Ramsay, lost his house also in Eastford. Knysna The Knysna fires devastated huge areas of prime real estate and informal dwellings on Wednesday night, and they continue to burn in places. A helicopter flew over the Knysna-Plett Herald offices on Spring Street on Thursday morning, and it was believed it was flying over the hill towards White Location. On Thursday morning, the sky was still thick with smoke, and it was dim, so it was impossible to say whether the helicopter was dropping water bombs. The South African Defence Force is expected in the town soon to help all the local firefighting teams who have battled since early Wednesday morning. What can be said at this time is that the central business district of Knysna seems to have only suffered wind storm damage. A quick look at Upper Town would indicate that the fires did not reach homes, but higher up on the hill they may have been burnt. Known damage was in Belvidere, Knysna Heights, Brenton-on-Lake and Pezula. The reports that schools had been burnt had not yet been confirmed. White Location lost many houses, but there was no official tally as of Thursday morning. Charlene Cox, the Knysna-Plett Herald sales executive, is still not sure if her house is standing as in Knysna Heights. Stefan Goosen, journalist, is beyond himself with relief because the fire in Rheenendal last night almost burnt down his house, but somehow it has managed to stand in an area that has been badly hit. Boniswa Zwayena of the Knysna-Plett Herald is safe, but said she was evacuated last night. A loud hailer at about 11pm warned us to go to nearby creches and churches. Zwayena ran for shelter at Dam-se-Bos, which was not affected. On Thursday morning, it started drizzling. On Thursday morning, the Knysna fire chief, Clinton Manuel, was not available for comment. His last words at midnight on Wednesday were, our team is deadbeat. Exhausted, but carrying on the best we can. Spokesperson for the Knysna municipality Fran Kirsten was also not available for comment, but she has also been working since the early hours of Tuesday morning. Plettenberg Bay Meanwhile, the George Municipality has confirmed that five GO GEORGE buses have been sent to Plettenberg Bay to help evacuate residents threatened by the fires that have raged out of control in that area since yesterday. Twenty-one GO GEORGE buses were deployed to Knysna last night to evacuate those residents. Behind the scenes, operational staff went to much trouble during the night to limit disruption of service to local passengers today. Only five trips were not executed during morning peak. GO GEORGE is proud and humbled to be in a position to lend a hand to our neighbouring towns in need and thanks the George public for their understanding and support. It is not possible to predict how long the evacuation process will take, but regular updates about service will be communicated on the GO GEORGE Facebook page as well as through the media. For updated information, please phone the GO GEORGE Call Centre on 0800 044 044. Sending in aid The Letaba Fire Protection Association (LFPA) set off from the Limpopo province on Thursday morning to assist in the fire combat in Knysna and Plettenberg Bay, reports the Letaba Herald. Zayin Vermaak, representing the LFPA, is piloting the helicopter. Picture: Letaba Herald Watch the helicopter take off from Tzaneen: Meanwhile, community members in Edenvale and Bedfordview are rallying behind those left homeless as a result of the Knysna fires. Donations of bottled water, energy drinks, food, blankets and clothing can be dropped off at the Bedfordview Edenvale News office in Greenstone Crescent Shopping Centre on Thursday. Nic Bruchhausen, an Edenvale resident, will drive to Knysna either later this afternoon or tomorrow morning to assist with firefighting efforts in the area. He will be taking all donations delivered. Donations for residents evacuated from their homes and firefighters working to control the blaze will be delivered to various evacuation points identified, Bruchhausen said. Firefighters working around the clock to control the blaze will also benefit from the donations, he said. Details: Greenstone Crescent Shopping Centre, Shop 18A, next to Body Flo Gym. The offices will be open until 4pm for donation drop-offs. Helping the animals The National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) on Thursday issued a statement which said it had dispatched their disaster teams early on Thursday morning from Alberton, in Gauteng, to assist animals affected by the devastating fires in the Knysna area in the Western Cape. The statement read, &#8220;Many animals have been left displaced and some severely injured and requiring the intervention of the NSPCA Disaster Teams. The aftermath of such devastating fires leaves a trail of destruction. Displaced animals need food and water. Severely injured animals need assistance. Animals suffering from burns require veterinary assistance and may need to be humanely euthanased to end their suffering if this is extreme and there is no hope of survival.&#8221; The NSPCA said that farm, domestic and wildlife animals have been affected by the &#8220;dire&#8221; situation and expressed thanks to the George and Mossel Bay SPCAs, stating that the staff have worked tirelessly since Wednesday afternoon to assist animals in danger. &#8220;Unfortunately these SPCAs have been prohibited from entering certain areas to rescue animals as a result of the fires being out of control,&#8221; said the NSPCA. &#8220;The George and Mossel Bay SPCAs took in over 60 animals from the Knysna Animal Welfare Society, in order to make space available for other animals to be admitted from surrounding communities affected by the disaster. &#8220;The NSPCA Disaster Teams will assess the situation upon arrival. More Inspectors and Veterinary staff will be deployed to the area if needed.&#8221; Caxton News Service Earlier The Western Cape government has listed the areas most affected by the devastating fire that started burning in the Kranshoek area on Wednesday. Early estimates included severe devastation to the following suburbs of Knysna: Brenton-on-Lake Brenton-on-Sea Nania Eastford Knysna Heights Fisherhaven Brakenhill Belvedere Heights Green Pastures Greenfield Jood se Kamp White Location Later today, damage assessments will be done. People have been sharing videos and pictures of the devastating fire on social media. Check out some of the videos below: #knynsafire @SABCNewsOnline @eNCA pic.twitter.com/1FQ6O4RXd9 &mdash; TheSkinn.Lightening (@Tashi_Noo) June 8, 2017 Earlier Plettenberg Bay residents have started to evacuate as the devastating fire that started burning in the Kranshoek area on Wednesday has spread to the outskirts of the coastal holiday town, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald. Details are not clear, but residents in the Whale Rock and Longships areas near Robberg have started to evacuate. Residents in the the Schoongezicht and Branckenrkidge estates have been urged to remain on high alert. There are reports of people packing up their belongings and getting ready to move. The Plettenberg Bay Primary School has been identified as an evacuation point and the CrossFit Plett box have offered shelter for those who need it. The Tenikwa Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre is open to receive displaced animals. Earlier The Western Cape Disaster Management Centre said early on Thursday morning that around 10 000 residents had been evacuated from Knysna where a fire has been raging out of control since Wednesday. However, the centre said there had not yet been a call for a mass evacuation of Knysna s 77 000 residents. The fire in Knysna is the largest and most destructive fire in a built up area in the Western Cape in recent memory with thousands displaced, James-Brent Styan, spokesman for Western Cape Local Government MEC Anton Bredell, said. It comes on the back of the worst storm seen in the Western Cape in at least thirty years. By Wednesday afternoon, the WCDMC confirmed a total of eight storm-related fatalities. High winds, pounding rain and thunderous seas caused havoc across large parts of Cape Town on Wednesday, ripping roofs off buildings and leading to widespread flooding in low-lying areas. Several thousand people were affected by the storm and had to be accommodated at emergency shelters. In Knysna, the WCDMC has appealed to members of the public to adhere to requests to evacuate certain areas, after reports of some residents refusing to leave their homes. Ultimately emergency services cannot be held responsible if members of the public to not heed legitimate evacuation requests, Styan said. The officials on the ground are monitoring the situation and will inform locals timeously, if and when additional evacuations become necessary. The officials on and offsite will not hesitate to take every action required to keep citizens safe. The statement also said evacuees were being transported to various safety sites and that additional fire-fighting resources had been deployed to assist, these include eight fire trucks from City of Cape Town, two from the Overberg district and 12 additional Working on fire teams . Strong winds and smoke has made the use of helicopters impossible up to this point. Some key infrastructure has been destroyed, which the WCDMC said had made communication difficult, but alternative communication measures had been established. The WCDMC is busy coordinating relief efforts and humanitarian relief aid for all affected areas across the Western Cape following the storm, including and with a specific focus on Knysna . A drop-off point will be established at the Eden Fire Station in George. African News Agency (ANA) &nbsp; Earlier Knysna fire chief Clinton Manuel said that the fire was burning out of control and that emergency services had a slim chance of stopping the fire with the resources available. The SA National Defence Force has been called in to help stricken residents. There had been no calls for a mass evacuation of Knysna where a fire was raging out of control, the Western Cape Disaster Management Centre (WDMC) clarified on Wednesday night While some areas in the town have already been evacuated, there is currently no call for mass evacuation of the entire Knysna, a statement from the WCMD said. By 11pm on Wednesday night, the areas of Brenton, Belvedere, Welbedacht, Nania, Eastford, Green Pastures and Knysna Heights had been evacuated. The officials on the ground are monitoring the situation and will inform locals timeously if and when additional evacuations become necessary. The officials on site will not hesitate to take every action required to keep citizens safe, the statement said. Evacuees are being taken to the Loerie Park area in town. There is shelter in that area. Further arrangements will be made when and if needed. Go George public buses were activated to provide mass transport services. At least 15 buses had been deployed to Knysna by 11pm. The City of Cape on Wednesday night said its staff had been activated and would drive through the night to reach Knysna to assist the town s firefighters. The City was deploying 27 firefighters, four bush fire tenders, two skid units, one major pump and a fire tender to the area. Firefighters from surrounding towns were also deployed, while two fire trucks from the Overberg district were sent to the area. Twelve additional Working on Fire teams are expected in Knysna. Aerial support had however been ruled out. Conditions include strong wind and lots of smoke which makes helicopter use not possible at present. The WCDM appealed to the public to rely on established information channels and urged people not to spread unconfirmed information as it could lead to panic. Whilst there are communications challenges, the town has established alternative communications measures to communicate with citizens. African News Agency (ANA) We have evacuated areas in the path of the fire. Evacuated people to safe areas. The fire is running with quite a fast wind behind it. This wind is blowing very, very strong causing the fire to spread extremely rapidly, he said. The idea is to evacuate areas further in the path of the fire to safer areas Currently we have got all our resources deployed and we are being assisted by neighbouring municipalities and other organisations. The areas evacuated on Wednesday night included, Brenton, Belvedere, Welbedacht, Nania, Eastford, Green Pastures, and Knysna Heights. He said that the fire was split in two one affecting the Knysna Heights and the CBD area and the second affecting the Belvedere and Brenton area. It is reported that about 50 houses were burnt. The fires claimed the lives of three people, saw several homes destroyed, led to large scale evacuations, power outages and road closures. Most of Knysna, Plettenberg Bay, Sedgefield and surrounds were covered in plumes of smoke for most of the day with the Knysna area worst affected. The flames were fanned by gale force winds as a devastating storm swept over the Western Cape. Knysna mayor Eleanore Bouw-Spies labeled the fires the worst in decades. By Wednesday night Eden District Disaster Management confirmed that firefighters had responded to 26 fires. Head of the unit Gerhard Otto said one of the fires, which broke out in the Rheenedal area outside Knysna, claimed the lives of three people. He said details around their deaths were however still unclear. Knysna fire chief Clinton Manual reported that four homes had been destroyed in the Knysna fires. Knysna municipal spokesman Fran Kirsten said that large scale evacuations had also been carried out Belvedere, Brenton-on-Sea and Karatara outside Knysna. Residents along Airport Road in Plettenberg Bay were also being evacuated as a precautionary measure due to a fire raging in the Kranshoek area just outside Plettenberg Bay towards Knysna. The N2 between the Plettenberg Bay and Knysna was closed due to low visibility early on Wednesday morning and Kirsten said it would remain closed until further notice. This after a fire broke out during the early hours of the morning in the Springveld area just outside Knysna off the N2. The municipality also deployed bulldozers in the area to keep the fire away from the road. Kirsten said the road between Brenton-on-Sea and Knysna as well as the road at the Phantom Pass in Rheendal had also been closed. She confirmed that there were several fires raging in the area including Karatara, Belvedere, Brenton-on-Sea and the Western Head in Knysna. These were all still out of control by late on Wednesday evening. Otto confirmed other areas affected included Kruis River in the Hessequa Municipality, in Herbertsdale near Mossel Bay, Touwsranten and Hoekwill near Wilderness. The fire in Plettenberg Bay broke out at the Kranshoek Viewpoint area, burnt along the coast and then cut inland towards the Cairnbrogie Estate just off Plett s Airport Road. Otto said that all available staff had been deployed to deal with the fires including staff that had been on rest days had been called in to assist. Working on Fire (WoF) teams have also been deployed to the area and so have about 60 firefighters from outside the district. Unfortunately due to gale force winds no aerial support can be activated, Otto said. The South African National Defense Force will however be contacted in an effort to obtain aerial support by means of an Oryx. There had also been no power to Knysna and Plettenberg Bay for most of the day as a result of the fires. African News Agency (ANA) Earlier Thousands of residents were being evacuated on Wednesday evening from Knysna amid runaway fires and raging winds. A Terrible fire in Knysna. Lord have mercy. 77000 people have been told to evacuate their homes. #KnysnaFire &mdash; Brenda Hallowes (@bhallowes) June 7, 2017 The Knysna municipality had earlier confirmed that a family of three died between Ruigtevlei and Barrington in the Southern Cape in a plantation fire on Wednesday. Municipality spokeswoman Fran Kirsten said the victims were a mother, her husband and their child. Kirsten said several residents were also evacuated from the beach and were moved to Buffalo Bay. Due to thick smoke and heat from the fires in Karatara, motorists have been asked to not travel on roads between George and Plettenberg Bay, Kirsten said. According to Kirsten, the N2, between Sedgefield and Plettenberg Bay, had been closed due to the fire. The emergency team has confirmed that no one is injured and the air force is on standby. The town of Knysna had also lost some phone lines due to the strong winds. Cape Town is in the middle of a monster storm while Knysna is on fire, the Western Cape is exper. both extremes at once &#8211; be safe everyone! pic.twitter.com/IcGnl1Ui6d &mdash; Francisco Pepino (@pacopepino) June 7, 2017 Residents have been told to inbox the municipality on Facebook, if help is needed, said Kirsten. Firefighters from surrounding municipalities have come to the aid of Knysna firefighters. Kirsten said teams from the City of Cape Town municipalities were expected to join the crews on Thursday. &quot;@MrCow_man: #KnysnaFire A church in the Knysna CBD has gone up in flames #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/lO17LkmPuv&quot; Where&#39;s your god now? &mdash; Marc (@SogMarc) June 7, 2017 Earlier on Wednesday, George firefighters were deployed to assist with another fire in the Wilderness area. According to the Western Cape local government department, house along the N2 highway at Touws River was destroyed, also by a fire. While the Southern Cape did not experience the same significant level of rainfall that hit the Cape Peninsula overnight, strong winds were fanning the fires in the dry, dense vegetation brought on by the drought in the province. Is @eNCA (@DStv 403), #SABC&#39;s @SABCTVNews (@DStv 404) or @ANN7tv (DStv 405) in Knysna for live-crossings fire coverage? Embarrassingly no. pic.twitter.com/WKaXBeOodJ &mdash; TVwithThinus (@TVwithThinus) June 7, 2017 Earlier Municipality spokeswoman Fran Kirsten said details of the deaths were not immediately available. Several residents from a local old age home between Knysna and Plettenberg Bay had been evacuated as well as the Brenton community hall. Kirsten confirmed that there was no rain in the area. #KnysnaFire Scores of people are being evacuated from their homes in Knysna as a fire threatens property. Photos: Richard Wallis. XK pic.twitter.com/oQU5tLSigD &mdash; Xolani Koyana (@JustKoyana) June 7, 2017 The only good thing is that there is less wind now, and it is not a gale-force wind any more, she added. Fire crews from neighbouring muncipalities were assisting Knysna firefighters. According to Western Cape local government MEC Anton Bredell s spokesman James Brent-Styan, the fire in Knysna was completely out of control and 13 houses at Springveld were evacuated . George firefighters were meanwhile deployed to assist with another fire in the Wilderness area. Styan said a house along the N2 highway was destroyed, also by a fire. While the Southern Cape did not experience the same significant level of rainfall that hit the Cape Peninsula overnight, strong winds were fanning the fires in dry, dense vegetation. The storm that is currently beating down on the Western Cape is causing confusion, fear, possibly millions worth of damage, and has already taken the lives of three residents of Rheenendal in Knysna, Knysna Plett Herald reports. The spokesperson for the Eden District Municipality (EDM) and manager of Disaster Management Community Services, Gerhard Otto, said: Three people have died in the fire near Rheenendal. Furthermore, Otto said the Knysna municipality had activated a local joint operations centre (JOC) at the Knysna Fire Station in order to coordinate local incidents. The local fire chief Clinton Manual has requested any support that the Western Cape can send as the fire now threatens Belvidere, and it is spreading fast towards Brenton-on-Sea, said Otto. Subsequently three Working on Fire [WOF] teams have been dispatched to Knysna with 60 additional staff form outside the Eden district, and the SANDF will be contacted in an effort to get aerial support by means of an Oryx, said Otto. READ MORE: N2 closed due to raging fire in Western Cape Otto confirmed that all available staff have been deployed. Staff that was on rest days at home have been called in on overtime, and all the WOF teams in the district have been deployed. In playing their part, according to Styan, the Western Cape Disaster Management Centre (WCDMC) alerted all stakeholders to ensure that they are on high alert and that their contingency plans are in place. A major concern for Knysna at the moment, according to Styan, is the fire that has gone out of control. This relates to fires at Hooggekraal, close to Rheenendal, Kruisfontein plantation (next to N2 close to Nekkies), Hooggekraal fire (Karatara, also known as Elandskraal fire), and the fire towards Plettenberg Bay on the N2 (which remains closed). The Knysna-Plett Herald is also aware of a fire on the western Heads blazing out of control. African News Agency and Caxton News Service