Gemini 22 May-21 June Creativity and compassion are high, but there s also a tendency to scatter your energy all over the pace. Focus on getting things done today Twins especially involving work and personal projects. Cancer 22 June 23 July Don t be a lone Crab today. Joint ventures are favoured as you spark ideas off each other and pool your talents to create something really special. The power of the group is also on your side Leo 24 July 23 Aug Today s planetary patterns are great for making pleasing professional progress. Don t expect perfect results though. Sometimes perceived mistakes can lead you in wonderful new directions. Virgo 24 August 23 September Your career zone is activated, so you need to assume a leadership role at work. Mercury and the Sun will help you communicate with colleagues, clients or customers in clever and creative ways. Libra 24 September 23 October Positive planetary aspects put you in the mood for love, romance, adventure, travel and creative projects. You re also keen to make contact with close friends from home and far away. Scorpio 24 October- 22 November Attached Scorpio &#8211; pamper your partner with extra TLC and surprise them by doing something adventurous together. Singles look for love with someone from outside your usual circle of friends. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December It s a terrific time to share your ideas and feelings with a friend or family member. The more you open up about your personal experiences, the more satisfying your relationships will be. Capricorn 22 December 20 January If you can get the ratio right between being prepared and being spontaneous, then you ll have a great day. Balance is the key. But a loved one may surprise you by making an unexpected move. Aquarius 21 January- 19 February Consider the consequences of what you say. If you take the time to communicate clearly with family members and listen to their concerns then you ll reap the rewards today Aquarius. Pisces 20 February- 20 March Home is where the heart is today as you face a stream of requests from loved ones. The more openly you communicate with a frazzled family member, the more positive the outcome will be. Aries 21 March 20 April Positive aspects promise a fabulous day for ambitious Aries. Activities involving communication, education and travel are highlighted. So make the most of the opportunities that come your way. Taurus 21 April 21 May Your ruler Venus makes a fabulous connection with Neptune. So love, romance, creativity, kindness and compassion are all on the radar today, as you have fun and enjoy yourself to the max.