Namibian freedom fighter and struggle icon Herman Andimba Toivo ya Toivo, who died on Friday, was a man of strong beliefs and convictions, the African National Congress said. The 93-year-old former Robben Island prisoner died in Windhoek on Friday. The ANC said Ya Toivo was a loyal friend of the South African people, a freedom fighter, hero and icon of Namibia s struggle for self determination. A man of strong beliefs and convictions, Cde Toivo dedicated his life to the fight against oppression by the then South Africa authorities, rejecting apartheid South Africa s reduction of sovereign Namibia into its colony, the ANC said in a statement. He was Namibia s longest serving Robben Islander, having served 16 years on the Island with other luminaries of the African peoples struggles following conviction for contravening South Africa s Terrorism Act. His life was the personification of solidarity, the quest for self-determination and unyielding commitment to the liberation of his people. Ya Toivo was a founding member of the South Western African People s Organization (SWAPO) and its predecessor the Ovamboland People s Organization (OPO). He also advocated for the rights of African and black mine workers in South Africa and Namibia and was banished from South Africa for smuggling taped testimonies to the United Nations (UN) about the harsh experiences of Black mine workers. After he was released from Robben Island in 1984, Ya Toivo committed himself to building a democratic Namibia and served as teh secretary general of Swapo in various portfolios in Government. South Africa has lost a true friend in Comrade Toivo ya Toivo and we send our deepest condolences to our fraternal organisation, SWAPO, the people of Namibia and Comrade ya Toivo s family on his passing, the ANC said. Comrade Toivo has left an indelible mark in the history of our region and the continent. Ours is to emulate his life s work and continue to fight for the realisation of his vision of freedom for oppressed peoples of the world and of a continent at peace with itself. African News Agency (ANA)