Cancer 22 June 23 July Don t be afraid to show your caring side today. Nurture your family and friends, and have fun with the special people in your life. You have much to learn from nature like taking each day as it comes. Leo 24 July 23 August Your home is your castle, where you can relax after a busy day spent performing in public. So find the time to wind down in your Lion s den, as you relax and reboot your run-down batteries. Virgo 24 August 23 September A relationship problem can be solved, as long as you keep things in perspective and don t swing into worry-wart mode. Ask yourself: Am I reacting out of proportion to the actual situation? Libra 24 September 23 October Your heart is likely to rule your head so don t make important decisions that require sound logical judgement. Instead, spend time with your close friends and tell loved ones how you feel. Scorpio 24 October 22 November Inspiration is high, as you join forces with a creative friend from near home or far away. But be careful you don t get so carried away that you end up overcommitting your time and talent. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Loose lips sink ships! Keeping quiet about financial matters is advisable at the moment. But can a loud-mouth Archer turn into a secretive Sagittarian? Today, anything is possible. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Don t be a lone wolf or should that be a lone Goat? If you nurture a special partnership, then you can combine your talents on a dynamic joint project. You ll have to get the ball rolling though. Aquarius 21 January 19 February With your unique talents on show today, make sure you inspire others with your creative approach. Don t spend so much time on routine daily commitments that you neglect loved ones though. Pisces 20 February 20 March Expect some mind-blowing dreams tonight, as Neptune stimulates Mercury in your imagination zone. And do you feel torn between head and heart? Being a Pisces, your heart will always win! Aries 21 March 20 April Don t be a flash-in-the-pan Aries. You absolutely love starting projects. But make sure your energy, good intentions and enthusiasm last the distance so that you actually finish what you begin. Taurus 21 April 21 May Avoid being too timid Taurus! Jupiter encourages you to approach each day in an adventurous way. Be inspired by blind-deaf educator Helen Keller: Life is either a daring adventure or nothing. Gemini 22 May 21 June Your fickle attention span is tested, when a project demands that you concentrate for more than 60 seconds. Stick with it because, with persistence, it could lead to a major breakthrough.