A police officer and eight suspects were killed in a shootout after police foiled a planned ATM bombing in the Hammarsdale Industrial area, near Durban, police said on Monday. Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said: In an incident which began last night and continued through to this morning, a shootout between members of the SAPS National Intervention Unit (NIU) and alleged robbers resulted in a policeman and eight suspected robbers being killed. The SAPS NIU and K9 Unit responded to information about a possible ATM bombing that was going to take place last night in the Hammarsdale Industrial area, Naicker said. Our members confronted the suspects, and they were met with gunfire during which a 44-year-old Warrant Officer from the National Intervention Unit was tragically shot dead. The suspects fled the scene on foot, but they were later found in the nearby bushes, where another shootout with police took place. Three suspects were fatally wounded during this exchange of gunfire. Naicker added the police team continued with the search for members of the armed gang and a second group of suspects were tracked down to a homestead in the Mophela area within the Mpumalanga policing precinct. In another exchange of gunfire where police were forced to respond, a further five suspects were fatally wounded. Acting KZN provincial commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa expressed his heartfelt condolences to the family of the fallen police officer. Our members put their lives on the line on a daily basis to ensure that the people of South Africa are and feel safe, Langa said. We commend our members for standing their ground against an armed group who were prepared to kill law enforcement members and had the firepower to do so; while we deeply mourn the loss of the warrant officer, we can be glad that more of our members were not killed by these ruthless criminals. The police s Provincial Organised Crime Unit was investigating the matter and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate had been informed of the events that unfolded. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.