Cancer 22 June 23 July In conversations with others today, resist the urge to be forceful and stubborn in your opinions. If you are too strident, a stimulating debate could quickly turn into a heated argument. Leo 24 July 23 August It s the perfect day to learn something new or research a topic in depth. You ll also gain valuable insights into the hidden motivations of yourself and others. Use such information discreetly though! Virgo 24 August 23 September Powerful Pluto activates your obsessive side Virgo, as you worry about everything and make mountains out of molehills. The less relaxed you are, the more difficult the day will be. Libra 24 September 23 October Work and family are a tricky juggle, as a family member frustrates you with their stubborn attitude. So do all you can to help them view the current situation from a much broader perspective. Scorpio 24 October 22 November Strong feelings could resurface today, as others push your emotional buttons and you overreact. Cool down, Scorpio, otherwise you run the risk of turning a minor matter into a grand obsession. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December It s not a good day to hit the shops as you re likely to buy things based on emotional desires. If you separate your wants from your needs, it will shorten your shopping list considerably. Capricorn 22 December 20 January The more you slip into Capricorn control-freak mode, the more problems you ll have today. Calm compromise is the smart way to go even though it s the last thing you feel like doing. Aquarius 21 January 19 February Obsessive thoughts may swirl around in your head today, Aquarius. And you could also have a disturbed night, as powerful Pluto stirs up your dream zone and you find it hard to sleep. Pisces 20 February 20 March Friends and children will be extra demanding but don t play the Piscean doormat and let them walk over you. The best way to balance conflicting needs is to aim for a fair deal for everyone. Aries 21 March 20 April Aim to keep an open mind today, especially at work. You can t control how other people think or what they say so don t waste time trying. And try to keep your strong feelings under control. Taurus 21 April 21 May Expect intense communication with others, as the planets trigger emotional outbursts or power games. If you keep your emotions and Taurean temper under control, you ll manage just fine. Gemini 22 May 21 June It s a great day to get to the bottom of a problem, as you re in a puzzle-solving frame of mind. But avoid obsessing over minor details. Take a step back, Gemini, and try to see the bigger picture.