Cancer 22 June 23 July With the new moon in Cancer, it s the best time to refresh your physical appearance, update your wardrobe, review your beliefs, launch a personal project or reboot a rickety relationship. Leo 24 July 23 Aug The new moon stimulates your soul sector, so slow down and contemplate your life and where you re going. Activities like music, meditation, contemplation, yoga and Tai Chi are all favoured. Virgo 24 August 23 September Now s the time to reformulate your goals and dreams, as the new moon activates your hopes and wishes zone. But expect some ongoing frustrations with a family member. Libra 24 September 23 October Librans are clever and capable but are you confident enough for success? The new moon s charging up your career zone and you won t get ahead if you are worrying and procrastinating. Scorpio 24 October- 22 November The new moon boosts your brain power and curiosity so it s time to read, research or study something new. Planning your next business trip, heavenly holiday or weekend escape is also a good idea. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December A fresh start is indicated involving loot or lust, as the new moon activates your joint finances and intimacy zone. It s also a fabulous time to research a subject that has always fascinated you. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Coupled Capricorns the new moon stimulates your relationship zone, so it s time to add some red-hot sizzle to the partnership. Singles, if you like someone, then you ll have to make the first move. Aquarius 21 January- 19 February Get creative. Boredom is a big no-no today as you search out unusual people, places and activities. You ll favour excitement and novel ideas over your usual daily routine. Pisces 20 February- 20 March Romance is in the air! Attached fish, find some fresh ways to add pizzazz to your partnership. Single Pisceans, don t sit around waiting for love to just land in your lap. You will need to be proactive. Aries 21 March 20 April Time for a brand new domestic chapter, as the new moon highlights your home zone. So, some rams will move house, welcome a new housemate, or start afresh with a stressed family member. Taurus 21 April 21 May There are some new faces in your neighbourhood waiting to meet you. So get out and about in your local community as you contribute your Taurean talents in creative and practical ways. Gemini 22 May-21 June The new moon shines a spotlight on money matters. If your finances are in a mess, then you need to develop some fiscal skills hopefully, with the guidance of an experienced professional.