Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula recently plumbed the depths of primordial racism when he attacked Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane for his marriage to a white woman. Obviously taking the lead from his boss, Deputy Minister of Police Bongani Mkongi followed suit: I think Mmusi Maimane is losing the plot. &#8220;I think the ANC must unleash us to deal with this white boy. Mmusi Maimane is nothing else but an uneducated child who preys on unsuspecting white girls who want relevance in a nonracial democratic South Africa. &#8220;In fact, Mmusi Maimane would never share the same bed with a white woman if it was not for the efforts of the ANC. Because you can kiss and hug a white woman, you believe it is Alpha and Omega. The language in this tweet is as revolting as the person who uttered it. It is deeply racist, culturally loaded and a grand violation of the rights to equality, dignity, and freedom of association. Mkongi embodies a disgraceful tribal patriarchal superiority against a fellow black man who dared to step outside the bounds of what he considers to be national racist solidarity and culturally appropriate. Black men who dare to transgress tribal and cultural norms are simply reduced to a white boy , an uneducated child who prey on Infantilising Maimane as someone who would prey on , negates his rights to courtship and exploring a life partner as everyone else that is wholesome and a choice that he exercises. In similar vein, Maimane s wife is reduced to an unsuspecting white girl who wants relevance in the new SA. Dripping with racist venom, the DA leader s wife is reduced to someone who is naive and who lacks agency. Mkongi declares further: just know that we, the ANC, made it possible for you, white boy , to share a bed with a white woman. Not a kitchen, not a house, but a bed. This obsession with cross-racial sex is the same fascination the apartheid government had with mixed marriages. Repressed obsessive sexual fantasies of the other are what occupied the minds of officials who pursued and persecuted mixed couples. Ironically, if ever anyone deserves scorn, it is the minister of police, his boss, who has affairs with young girls on social media, nogal. But that is not as big a crime as Maimane s marriage to a white woman. That, in the tribe, is what makes Mbalula a man, and Maimane a boy. It is this cultural hogwash that bedevils intra- and cross-racial gender relations and that also exacerbates abuse and domestic violence. Many elected officials and activists use words like &#8216;unleash&#8217;, &#8216;crush&#8217; and &#8216;kill&#8217; in reaction to white people for which they have not been charged like those of lighter hue in the equality court and fined R150 000. There is no easier fall guy than white people to atone for the sins of the ruling elite, who now, all powerful, have a chip on their shoulder for being grossly incapable of taking this country forward. White people be warned you had better be prepared for all the unleashing and crushing that will take place in the run-up to the elections. FILE PICTURE: Rhoda Kadalie, anti-apartheid activist, making a speech in Athlone. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa is taking on a raging bull For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.