Over 290 travel trade exhibitors from the East African region and beyond participated in the Karibu Travel &amp; Tourism Fair which ended last Sunday in Arusha.The Karibu fair gives travel and tourism stakeholders a great opportunity to showcase tourism products and services to buyers and visitors from across the region, African continent and the world.Arusha is Tanzania s tourist hub located near world-class tourism wonderlands such as Serengeti National Park, Mount Kilimanjaro, the rooftop of Africa and Ngorongoro Crater among many others.Karibu Fair, which is one of the largest travel trade fairs in East Africa, in its 18th year organised by the Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (TATO) was held from May 26 to 28.The exhibitors included Tanzania s ministry of natural resources and tourism with its conservation and marketing, hoteliers, tour operators, travel agents, airlines, car dealers and tourism service providers.They showcased wildlife safari and beach, culture and heritage, hotels, lodges and tented camps among others. These spent days connecting and discussing business deals.Mr Sirili Akko, executive secretary of the tour operators umbrella organisation TATO said, It was indeed a successful event which brought under one roof policy makers and tourism practitioners from the East African region and the world. The TATO official said that his association used the event and forum to advance the tourism industry interest to decision makers. The slogan for this year s event was Sustainable Tourism for Development. We are riding on our current positive image the country is enjoying globally to reaffirm our position as the preferred tourist destination. But there are some of the pertinent issues in the country which need the intervention of the government and other stakeholders, Akko said.Trade visitors and exhibitors were not short of entertainment as those who enjoy camel riding had an opportunity of being on short safari within the Magereza grounds. Mkuru camel safari which has pioneered the camel safaris in the north of Tanzania provided the noble safari to clients.The Maasai people who stand as one of Tanzania s living culture were also part of the entertainment at the Karibu Fair. The group of traditional Maasai dancers was staged by Engaresero Eramarata cultural tourism.Catherine Lyamuya an official from the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) in Arusha commended the dedication and work done by several cultural tourism enterprises (CTEs) across the country. We now have 66 registered CTEs and 105 are in progress. Their registration is awaiting the fulfillment of procedural requirements, which is at different stages. Cultural tourism activities which are now scattered across the country are helping communities to improve their livelihood and be the custodian of the cultural and heritage properties in their areas.The Tanzania cultural tourism programme booth which this year was attended by Engaresero Eramatare, Meru forest eco-tourism, Mkuru camel safaris, Mto wa Mbu, Mulala and Tengeru CTEs. Their participation, according to Catherine was preceded by a marketing training which was conducted by volunteers from Uniterra Canada. Elizabeth Matte and Reenar Mohamed both volunteers from Uniterra are attached to the Tanzania Cultural Tourism Programme under the TTB.Mr Amasi Mwangobole who traveled from Uyole Mbeya to take part in the Karibu Fair was hopeful that the southern region of Tanzania will also benefit from the trade fair. We are also here in Arusha to enhance our partnership with tour operators and travel agents from the region and beyond. E-mail: elisha.mayallah@gmail.com