Cancer 22 June 23 July The stars highlight getting involved in charitable work with a global reach, or lending a hand to someone closer to home. But don t accept things at face value. Take time to look a little deeper Leo 24 July 23 August It s not your royal Leo right to control everything and everyone around you. Today you ll discover that true serenity lies in accepting others as they are, rather than trying to change them. Virgo 24 August 23 September You re fixated on something and won t rest until it s resolved. By all means be thorough and determined about finding a solution, but avoid getting drawn into power games and ego clashes. Libra 24 September 23 October There s a heavy feeling in the air, as people carry over the intensity of the last few days. So lighten the atmosphere with your natural talent for peace-making and smoothing troubled waters. Scorpio 24 October 22 November Scorpios are born organisers, in fact some brave souls would call you a control freak! Today, aim to relinquish control and let someone else be boss otherwise you ll run out of steam and friends. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Many people will be on the defensive but if you avoid mentioning sex and money, you should get through the day OK! Look for proactive ways to make money doing something you love. Capricorn 22 December 20 January The spotlight is on you at work this afternoon, so make sure you are putting on a good show. And do your best to be extra diplomatic and understanding with a stressed family member. Aquarius 21 January 19 February Self-esteem issues step into the spotlight today Aquarius. So it s a suitable time to have a good long look at a personal issue, or help a loved one as they embark on their own healing journey Pisces 20 February 20 March Conversations will be complicated, as you dig beneath the surface and get to the bottom of an old emotional issue. True healing comes from sharing your experiences and vulnerabilities with others. Aries 21 March 20 April Bossy demands will attract strong reactions from others. Tune into the healing planetary energy as you patch up personal problems, and deal with disagreements in a therapeutic way. Taurus 21 April 21 May It s a good day for focused study and intense conversations. Keep your jealous/possessive streak in check though Taurus. Sharing the affection around doesn t mean there s less love for you. Gemini 22 May 21 June The more energy and effort you put into healing your home life, the more safe and secure you ll feel at work and in the wider world. Family is the foundation that holds everything else up.