BMW is presenting an extensively updated successor to one of the most creative vehicle concepts of recent years. The new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo blends the long-distance comfort of a luxury sedan with alluring coupe style. . The impressive functionality offered by this body format and the high standards of driving comfort and spaciousness that provide the ideal setting for a relaxing journey are among the features that defined the character of the new car s predecessor the founder of this vehicle genre. These strengths have now been further honed in the new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo, whose systematic evolution from the BMW 5 Series Gran Turismo is particularly evident in the new model s sporting elegance, highly advanced equipment features, innovative control and assistance systems, and a leap forward in dynamism and efficiency. The BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo offers a unique combination of luxurious interior comfort and flexible practicality, packaged within a truly elegant design. Coupled with the sporty, dynamic driving characteristics our customers enjoy, this car is an outstanding vehicle which further enhances the upper end of our BMW model line-up, comments Dr Ian Robertson, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, responsible for Sales and Brand BMW. . The new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo will make its public debut at Frankfurt s International Motor Show (IAA) in September 2017. The global market launch will then get underway in November 2017, when there will initially be a choice of two engines the BMW 640i xDrive Gran Turismo and BMW 630d Gran Turismo, while pricing will be confirmed in due course. A combination of intelligent lightweight engineering and increased use of aluminium and high-strength steel grades for body and chassis components has shaved an average of around 150 kilograms off the weight of the new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo compared to the outgoing model. Together with the considerable improvement in the car s aerodynamic properties, the increase in power and the superior efficiency of the new engines, this endows the car with sportier performance at the same time as optimising fuel economy. .. Depending on the engine variant, the sprint from 0 to 100 km/h is completed up to 0.7 seconds quicker than in the equivalent predecessor model, while fuel consumption and emissions figures in the NEDC test cycle are as much as 15 percent lower (BMW 640i Gran Turismo, BMW 630d Gran Turismo) Handling dynamics and driving comfort in the new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo both reap the benefits of the extensive improvements made to chassis technology. Self-levelling air suspension comes as standard at the rear axle, while ride comfort especially can be further enhanced by opting for the Adaptive suspension (featuring front and rear air suspension plus Dynamic Damper Control). The Executive Drive option, which is offered in combination with the Integral Active Steering system and also includes active roll stabilisation, gives the vehicle a sportier edge. The two-axle air suspension allows the vehicle s ride height to be adjusted manually, meaning that ground clearance can be increased by 20 millimetres at the touch of a button to negotiate dirt tracks or steep ramps, for example. The vehicle can also be lowered by 10 millimetres either manually by again pushing a button, or automatically when SPORT mode is engaged via the Driving Experience Control switch or the car s speed exceeds 120 km/h. All optional suspension systems are now available in conjunction with BMW xDrive. . The line-up of engines available for the new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo feature cutting-edge TwinPower Turbo technology and team up with the eight-speed Steptronic transmission as standard. Generating an output of 250kW and maximum torque of 450Nm, the 3.0-litre six-cylinder in-line petrol engine enables the new BMW 640i Gran Turismo xDrive to accelerate to 100 km/h from rest in 5.3 seconds, it is said. The 3.0-litre six-cylinder inline diesel engine producing 195kW and peak torque of 620Nm can likewise be combined with allwheel drive as an option. The new BMW 630d Gran Turismo xDrive can race from 0 to 100 km/h in 6.0 seconds it is claimed. The driver assistance systems fitted in the new BMW 6 Series Gran Turismo make use of the standard stereo camera as well as optional radar and ultrasonic sensors to monitor the vehicle s surroundings. The Collision and Pedestrian Warning with City Collision Mitigation comes as standard, while the list of options includes the new, improved version of Active Cruise Control with Stop &amp; Go function operational at speeds between 0 and 210km/h. The Steering and lane control assistant (active in the same speed range) represents another step along the road to automated driving. It uses road markings and vehicles driving ahead for orientation and helps the driver to keep the vehicle in the detected lane. The Lane Departure and Lane Change Warning systems, Side Collision Warning and the evasion aid likewise enhance convenience and safety by coming to the driver s assistance with corrective steering inputs. The Crossing traffic warning, Priority warning, Crossroads warning and Wrong-way warning systems similarly do their bit to avoid potentially hazardous situations.