The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) on Thursday said it was extremely worried about the lack of consultation when it comes to the appointment of key positions at Eskom. This comes after Eskom announced the appointment of veteran chartered marketer Johnny Dladla as acting group chief executive with immediate effect on Thursday. NUM energy sector coordinator, Paris Mashigo, said the union has a vested interest in Eskom, with the intention of influencing who gets appointment in leadership positions. The lack of consultation with key stakeholders, on the appointment of the acting group CEO in particular and the board, in general, will lead to chaotic management of the Eskom, Mashigo said in a statement. We want leadership that is accountable to the country, capable of stabilising the utility as well as recognition of workers input towards generation, transmitting and distributing electricity to our people. Mashego said the NUM was calling upon the Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown to consult with it on all plans to effect changes in the management of Eskom. Eskom has been without a chief executive since the bungled reinstatement of Brian Molefe, while interim chief executive Matshela Koko went on leave following an investigation into claims of possible conflict of interest. Eskom board chairperson, Ben Ngubane, also resigned in a huff two weeks ago. Brown appointed Zethembe Khoza as the interim board chairman until Cabinet approves new appointments. It is imperative the power utility has a properly constituted board as it will hold its annual general meeting on Friday. Eskom said both parties were of firm belief that Dladla s experience and expertise will stabilise the company in the short-term. Dladla has plied his career amongst international brands such as BHP Billiton and South African Breweries (SAB). He studied across a range of fields including finance and accounting amongst Harvard Business School, Fort Hare University, Cranfield University (UK), AAA School of Advertising and IMM. Dladla has sufficient skills to excel in this role. He has 22 years of experience within the Eskom, 17 years invested in various non-regulated businesses and five years as chief executive for Eskom Enterprises and its subsidiaries, Khoza said. Dladla is a seasoned business leader with impeccable credentials. His business acumen, which includes his commendable knowledge of Eskom intricacies, will come in handy in his new role. As board, we are looking forward to working with him and his executive team to address the current challenges. Khoza said throughout these roles, Dladla had demonstrated sterling leadership which manifested itself in his turnaround strategies. Brown said: I welcome the appointment of Mr Dladla as it will bring further stability to Eskom and its executive team. Brown has obligated the board to finalise the appointment of a permanent group chief executive to ensure long-term stability to the utility. African News Agency (ANA)