I have lived long enough to tell when things are about to get ugly especially at the bar.So with the arrival of Juma the player, there was yet another addition to what was once very dull neighbourhood.This time it was a certain cocky middle aged man whom we simply referred to as Jaluo due to his preference of speaking his native Dholuo all the time.His generosity was never in question, he shared a thing with Juma for his love for anything in a skirt, though his choice sometimes baffled fellow patrons.They thought that for a man who was as exposed as he was should have better taste with a touch of finesse.This particular aspect seemed to elude Okello Odongo despite the grandiose in his talk and the love for expensive liquor which in most cases wasn t available.His exploits in Pueto Rico, how he survived in Japan and his days as a student in Hawaii were all part of his conversation that never stopped to mesmerize the locals.He spoke English with pomp and some arrogance that was rather inexplicable to most lads.Several people suffered Jaluo s brunt but it was Chiku who suffered most as Okello Odongo deemed her to be less civilised and not good enough to attend to him. Nyako, ebu niletee that favourite single malt drink of mine, he would say leaving Chiku in complete confusion. Sasa huyo mjinga ametoka wapi, one cannot understand such delicate Cognac, he said.At such moments Chiku would feel like bursting only to be calmed by other patrons who would tell her not to mind Okello Odongo loud mouth.But for some reason or the other, Jaluo seemed to get along with Mama B the owner of the pub and on certain instances you would hear them break into gigles .It was Aisha the new recruit who thought she was more suited to be Jaluo s company after all she had served in the big bars in Dar es Salaam. These days when that man comes, madam hardly goes anywhere. They sit in that corner and start behaving like teenage lovers. Can t she see that she is misbehaving? Aisha told Chiku.As for Chiku, Aisha was punching above her weight and that according to her was very dangerous for it could cost her the job. Hmm wewe, it seems you don t love this job, Chiku replied.She believed it was not wise to tangle with madam because she can sometime become very vicious at the slightest provocation.Madam had fallen for Jaluo s charms and soon her fashion sense too began to change, she had to match his.She even developed a rare taste for fragrances which according to Aisha was courtesy of Okello Odongo s generosity. This man was a menace that we all enjoyed having around us especially with his generosity as word had it that we worked with some airline .On this day, he had arrived slightly earlier than usual and he seemed in a jolly mood as he passed around greeting patrons.He then settled in the usual corner where he was joined by the proprietor and whatever they discussed remained a tight secret that even the nosy Aisha has failed to decode.Then walks in the mighty Juma and as usual he was with some pretty young things in tow, one was young enough to be his daughter. But this was just Juma at his best!!!!At that juncture Jaluo was passing to ease himself and Matata thought it would only be wise to introduce him to Juma as a sign of respect. Ndugu I would like to introduce you to . he said as Jaluo interrupted him. Matata for your information and future references, I don t speak to such people after working hours, said Odongo much to the dismay of other revelers.The exchanges that followed were rather uncouth to say the least. I just don t know what will happen next!