Wesbank said on Thursday that the effects of South Africa s economy being downgraded to junk status continued to be felt in the new vehicle sales industry. This comes as new vehicle sales for May 2017, as reported by the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (Naamsa), saw a year-on-year decline of 2.6 percent. In April, year-to-date sales volumes shrunk 1.4 percent and with May s decline, year-to-date sales are now down 1.7 percent. Wesbank head of brand and communications, Rudolf Mahoney, said that a combination of political environment and consumer behaviour were affecting a growth forecast for the year. WesBank forecasted marginal growth for 2017, which was made with expectation of a stable economic environment, Mahoney said. However, political and economic uncertainty have affected this outlook, as well as consumer buying behaviour. Mahoney said two indicators of this uncertainty among consumers were seen in WesBank s data. In May, Mahoney said there were year-on-year increases for average deal duration in both the new and used market. He said statistics showed that consumers were hesitant to replace their vehicles, with the replacement cycle extending by nine percent compared to May last year. May had a favourable calendar for sales, with four more working days than April and one more working day than the same period last year, Mahoney said. Yet despite this, overall sales declined. We can only attribute this to uncertainty among buyers. Wesbank said those who did return to the market chose to manage risk by opting for fixed interest rates, to avoid potential future rate hikes. Data from WesBank shows a 19 percent increase in demand for fixed interest since South Africa s economy was downgraded to junk status. Demand for balloon payments has risen 13 percent, year-on-year, showing that consumers are seeking ways to lower monthly instalments. A lot of uncertainty exists as a result of recent economic developments, making it difficult to accurately predict the outlook for the motor industry for the remainder of the year, Mahoney said. For consumers in the market the picture is a lot clearer, though: spend wisely and try to hedge your risks. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.