Gemini 22 May 21 June The Moon s in Pisces today, and you have much to learn from this sensitive sign. Such as a little less talk, a little more reflection; a little less gossip, a little more compassion! Cancer 22 Jun 23 July You may feel overwhelmed and emotionally oversensitive today so pace yourself. If others are placing too many demands on you, then don t be afraid to set some boundaries and say no. Leo 24 July &#8211; 23 August If you have a problem that s bothering you, don t just rely on rational thought to get you through. It s time to tap into your intuition, so you can gain access to some much-needed inner wisdom. Virgo 24 August 23 September Letting finances take their own course may be tempting but you need to keep up to speed with money matters. If you are responsible and frugal, then it will pay off further down the track. Libra 24 September 23 October Librans, keep the communication flowing with your partner, and don t take them for granted. Singleslook for love with a gregarious Gemini, an amorous Aries or an adventurous Aquarian. Scorpio 24 October 22 November The Piscean Moon is travelling through your creativity/friendship zone, so projects and people will be hard to pin down. The more flexible you are, the more progress you ll make. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Can you figure out a problem that has family members stymied? They re expecting you to come up with the goods so get creative! For some lucky singles, love and work are linked. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Are you becoming too self-absorbed? Perhaps it s time to concentrate on others. Helping those in need at home and within your local community will bolster your spirits today. Aquarius 21 January 19 February You re impatient to get a financial arrangement moving ASAP, Aquarius, but there s more to the situation than meets the eye. So don t sign on the dotted line until the confusion lifts. Pisces 20 February 20 March It s not a good time to lend money to others and, if you do, expect a confusing wait before you get it back. However it is a good day to lose yourself in a creative or spiritual project. Aries 21 March 20 April Rams can be selfish souls but helping others is the way you ll get the most out of the day. The Pisces Moon helps you focus less on yourself and more on the needs of those around you. Taurus 21 April 21 May Aim to get the balance right between individual projects and joint ventures. If you align yourself with like-minded friends, then you can pool your talents and make a difference.