&#8220;It s a lovely feeling that I can put my trust in players who have done well in Super Rugby.&#8221; It explains why Springbok coach Allister Coetzee included seven Lions players and four new caps in the starting line-up for the first Test against France at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. Also read: Springboks rely heavily on the Lions for French battle The uncapped players are all in the backline, with Cheetahs dynamo Raymond Rhule and Lions star Courtnall Skosan chosen on the wings, and the solid Andries Coetzee and the reliable Ross Cronje, both Lions players, named as fullback and scrumhalf respectively. &#8220;To pair Elton Jantjies and Ross Cronje at halfback was a no-brainer, especially since Francois Hougaard has only had five days of training with us. Courtnall Skosan has been impressive for the last two years and Andries forms a good combination with eighthman Warren Whiteley,&#8221; said Coetzee in Pretoria on Thursday. &#8220;I am looking for good decision-makers and those combinations at the back are more important than the combinations in the set-pieces when it comes to exits and sizing up decision-making opportunities. It s great to have the spine of the team coming from the Lions, they will bring a calmness because they understand their roles.&#8221; The problem with picking on form for this series is that there are only 265 total caps in the starting line-up. It&#8217;s a far cry from the 800-cap teams South Africa have fielded for much of the last decade. &#8220;It s a new beginning in terms of everything, but you ve got to make sure there s a balance in terms of experience,&#8221; said Coetzee. &#8220;Where I could add experience, I did that.&#8221; That&#8217;s why Beast Mtawarira, the most-capped player in the squad with 87, starts in the number one jersey. It also explains the inclusions of Frans Malherbe (15 caps) and Coenie Oosthuizen (23), who edged out the uncapped Ruan Dreyer as the two tighthead props. It&#8217;s only because of their relative experience, especially since hooker Malcolm Marx will be making his first Test start. Duane Vermeulen&#8217;s injury robs the Boks of a bulldozer at flank but Coetzee didn&#8217;t fill his spit with a like-for-like replacement. In the end the coach did not opt for a like-for-like replacement at blindside flank, instead plumping for the more all-round skills of Oupa Mohoje. Sharks strongman Jean-Luc du Preez is, however, on the bench. Losing a player of Duane s calibre would be a blow for any team, he s one of the best loose forwards in world rugby. But Jean-Luc is also a big ball-carrier and an abrasive player. In choosing the three starting loose forwards, you want good lineout options and we have a fourth jumper in Oupa, whose defence is also very good. Siya Kolisi can also be a big ball-carrier and he works towards the ball on the ground. It s a much-of-a-muchness loose trio, but there s a good balance, Coetzee said. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.