London Raven&#8217;s Lady hit the crossbar in Listed company last time, but the Greene King IPA Charlotte Fillies&#8217; Conditions Stakes at Chelmsford can provide adequate compensation. Marco Botti&#8217;s charge made a slow start to the campaign but wins at Newmarket in June and July have really kick started her season and seen her rise 5kg in the official ratings. Her new perch of 95 makes handicap opportunities rather limited, so it was little surprise Botti raised her sights for the Flying Fillies&#8217; Stakes at Pontefract last time. She was well supported that day, but ultimately last year&#8217;s Lowther winner Queen Kindly was just under a length too good and Raven&#8217;s Lady had to be content with sharing third after a tight finish. Nevertheless, that effort proved she is more than capable at that level, so switching back in company here and with the conditions of the race leaving her well in, Raven&#8217;s Lady will be a tough nut to crack. Piedita can chalk up her hat-trick in the Abbot Ale Handicap. A typical Sir Mark Prescott type, Piedita has thrived for a sizeable step up in trip to 3200m, claiming victory in a maiden handicap at Beverley before following up at Lingfield last week. She looked good value for her 4.50-length winning margin last week, triumphing with the minimum of fuss to suggest the 3kg penalty she is saddled with here will prove no bar to success. Mobbhij is worth looking out for in the closing Oktoberfest Here On 13th October Maiden Stakes. A half-brother to the classy Sajjhaa, Saeed bin Suroor has obviously give this colt plenty of time before pitching him into battle. Tirania can make the long trip from Newmarket to Musselburgh pay dividends in the EBF Stallions Breeding Winners Fillies&#8217; Handicap. William Haggas&#8217; charge has won one of her four starts to date but she seemed to be found out when stepped up in grade last time at Ascot. This event does not look quite as competitive though and Tirania has also been eased 0.5kg in the ratings which is a help. Chalky can make it third-time lucky in the Cdl Recruitment/EBF Maiden Fillies&#8217; Stakes at Bath. Second at Yarmouth on her debut in July, she was beaten just a head in third at Salisbury earlier in the month. She still looked a bit green that day so it surely just a matter of time before she gets her head in front for Martyn Meade. Press Association Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.