The New Beetle is one of the world s best known, most loved and most individual cars. Volkswagen has refined the lifestyle icon s design, engineering and technology. For the South African market, Volkswagen is launching a limited edition Beetle R-Line model with only 50 units being made available to participating Volkswagen dealerships. Identifying features of the new version of the Beetle include a redesigned front bumper. The central air inlet has been made larger and framing it now in the vehicle body colour are bars that strive outwards in an A-shape, making the Beetle appear wider and sturdier. On both the left and right outer edges of the bumper a black trim element emphasises the width. Customers opting for the new limited edition R-Line version will acquire a Beetle that additionally has a further narrow air inlet between number plate and bonnet. The Beetle is furthermore equipped with a new trim element in elegant gloss black that runs all around the car. It frames, among other features, the central air inlet and acting as body-wideners the wheel arches and side sills. Also black on these versions is the central and lower part of the rear bumper, diffuser included, which has been remodelled in line with the front of the car. The exterior modifications are rounded off by a new optional paint finish, White Silver Metallic, standard Park Distance Control, the newly colour-coordinated 18-inch Ravenna Adamantium silver alloy wheels and smoked LED tail lights. The Beetle s interior has a black painted dashpad and upper door panels, the glove compartment in original Beetle style, the standard additional instruments (boost pressure, oil temperature and stop watch) above the instrument panel and the ambient lighting it all elevates this limited edition sport model above many other cars of it class. Volkswagen has significantly changed the seat fabrics with the exclusive R-Line inspired seats. Frontsports seats are finished in contemporary Kyalami cloth upholstery, with an embroided R-Line logo on the head restraints. The Crystal Grey Microfibre side bolsters provide excellent lateral support when cornering, while manual height and lumbar adjustment allows you to find your perfect driving position. The Beetle R-Line is equipped as standard with the Composition Media radio system and eight loudspeakers. Its features include a 6.5- inch touchscreen, Bluetooth connectivity, USB interface as well as App-Connect (only Apple CarPlay compatible). The optional Fender premium soundpack delivers a unique audio experience thanks to the 400 watt output from the eight speakers and subwoofer. The visual experience is created with ambient illumination around the speakers, door panels, lighting strip under the door trim and the LEDs on the loudspeaker ring. The Limited edition comes with three paint finishes to choose from: Pure White, Tornado Red and the new White Silver Metallic, with the Black varnished roof as an option. An extra three options are available: Panoramic sunroof, Fender sound system and Technology Package. The 1.4-litre TSI engine has an output of 110kW and offers a maximum torque of 250Nm and will retail for R419 500.