Defiant ANC MP Makhosi Khoza may have been removed as chairperson of parliament’s public service and administration portfolio committee, but she has not stopped criticising her party’s current leadership.
On Thursday, Khoza, who has been vocal about her unhappiness with President Jacob Zuma’s leadership, was removed from her parliament job.
She is one of the few MPs who announced they would vote with the opposition in the motion against Zuma, which has since failed.
On Friday, Khoza released a statement on Facebook, where she revealed she has been found guilty by the ANC Study Group for voting with her “moral conscience”.
She is still going to face the same charges in KwaZulu-Natal on September 10.
“After that I will face same charges nationally. Notwithstanding I have been banished, and am on death row for the same charges. It does not end there; my children are also sentenced to intimidation and death threats for supporting their mother who is fighting corruption,” Khoza said.
She said she would continue the fight against corruption “like a wife in an abusive relationship”.
“I’m not capturable and corruptible. When you get a promotion in the ANC today, chances are that you might be captured. When you are demoted, you must be doing something right. It sounds abnormal. Eish.”
She said the ruling party was breaking down all that it had built over 103 years.
“Are we surprised when our people burn down schools, libraries, community halls etc. meant to benefit them? If the ruling party that proclaims to be a leader of society is doing the same, what authority does it have to lead a society when stealing is rewarded, lies are protected, when corruption is cushioned, when violence against women is trivialised, when the rule of law is disregarded, when its branches, state institutions are captured?”
Khoza said no one should pity her, but instead South Africans should ask themselves how far are they willing to go for their country.
“Please be assured I shall never betray my moral conscience. Lies die truth never does. I don’t live for today only, I live for future generations,” she said.