An eight-race card of maidens might result in some people turning up their noses but as the races are not handicaps, bettors have a better chance of making money. That is the case at Turffontein today and there look to be some very good bets on the card. There are also some well-bred first-timers in action but that could make the Pick 6 an attractive bet because even if one of them wins, the first raced horse home also counts. There looks to be a really good banker in Race 6, the fourth leg of the Pick 6, in Alec Laird-trained Cashel Palace. The three-year-old filly was well supported to win her first start but suffered a slipped saddle. Despite all that the daughter of Fort Wood still managed to finish third, beaten just 2.75 lengths. She runs in a race over 1600m on the Standside track in a race specifically for three-year-old fillies and with the Laird stable in devastating form right now, Cashel Palace looks to have everything going for her. In Race 3, the opening leg, the two raced horses with the best form are Ekuseni and Stay With Me. They could be enough for the Pick 6 with preference for the latter as three winners have come from the last form line. He ran third on that occasion, beaten just 1.80 lengths by Devil s Peak. Trainer Joe Soma has re-engaged Weichong Marwing, who rode this son of Count Dubois last time. Ekuseni ran third on debut over this course and distance and Stuart Pettigrew s charge has the benefit of No 1 draw. Race 4 also looks a two-horse race between Diva Faustina, also with Marwing up, and Effortless. The latter is one of four rides for five-times champion jockey Mark Khan, who is staging a comeback tomorrow after seven years in retirement. In Race 5 one could probably get away with two horses, Mike de Kock-trained Like A Panther and Llandudno. The only other runner to consider would be Aquila Warrior, not so much on form but rather because he is trained by Sean Tarry and ridden by S manga Khumalo. Race 7 has a number of unraced horses and that will decided on how many horses to take. Of the raced horses Forgimme and Monarchy Mist look best but their form is not that strong so one might have to look among the first-timers. De Kock saddles Hurricane Lass with Marwing up, Laird has Roman Ballerina to be ridden by Randall Simons, while Candice Dawson has Var filly Varsity Girl so it could be a safer option to include them as well. The same applies in Race 8 where Mutawaary looks best of the raced horses but there are a lot of well-bred first-timers to consider. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.