London &#8211; Brilliant filly Enable can be the star of the show on Ladies&#8217; Day by giving another top-drawer performance in the Group 1 Darley Yorkshire Oaks at York today. The John Gosden-trained three-year-old, wearing the Khalid Abdullah colours immortalised by Frankel, has been the shining light of the summer with brilliant wins in the English and Irish Oaks and lately the King George VI &amp; Queen Elizabeth Stakes. Her impressive victory over the colts and older horses at Ascot last month, with Coral-Eclipse scorer Ulysses well held in second place, stamped her as a very special filly. It is no wonder the daughter of Nathaniel is hot favourite in the ante-post betting for the Qatar Prix de l&#8217;Arc de Triomphe at Chantilly on 1 October. Hopefully, Group 1 Pretty Polly Stakes heroine Nezwaah will give her a race, but it would be a major surprise if Enable does not justify her prohibitive odds. Mori can give Enable&#8217;s owner a double by winning the British EBF &amp; Sir Henry Cecil Galtres Stakes. Trained by Sir Michael Stoute, the daughter of Frankel, who is also out of Group 1 winner Midday, is already a Listed scorer and was only beaten a neck by Coronet in the Group 2 Ribblesdale Stakes at Royal Ascot. A repeat of that eff ort should see her as the one to beat. Threading can overcome her inexperience by winning the Sky Bet Lowther Stakes on just her second start. The Mark Johnston-trained juvenile could not have been more impressive on her debut at Glorious Goodwood where she trotted up by six lengths from 14 rivals in a 1200m maiden. She has no doubt shown the benefi t of that run in her homework, prompting connections to take the plunge and stump up 15,000 pounds to supplement her for this Group 2 heat. It is certainly a gamble worth taking. Blair House had no luck in the Betfred Mile at Goodwood but had earlier finished second in the Hunt Cup at Royal Ascot. The Charlie Appleby-trained fouryear- old looks the answer to the Clipper Logistics Handicap. Ed Dunlop&#8217;s Newmarket raider Wealth Tax can continue his progress by completing a hattrick in the Sodexo Scottish Trophy Handicap at Hamilton. The Canford Cliff s gelding has been in a rich vein of form with wins at Nottingham and Sandown. He has gone up a total of 5kg for those victories and could still be improving. Mercian King shaped well on his first run for nearly six months when runner-up at Bangor three weeks ago and can reap the benefit of that outing to land the Dean &amp; Gill Silver Wedding Anniversary Handicap Chase at Fontwell. &#8211; Press Association Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.