Flyhalf Handre Pollard has finally convinced national coach Allister Coetzee that he is ready to return to the Springbok setup. Pollard, still only 23, played the last of his 20 Tests in 2015 at the World Cup against Argentina before being savaged by one injury after another. Also read: Siya Kolisi shrugs off all the Salta accolades Having completed his ankle rehabilitation, the powerful No 10 was yesterday included in the 29-man squad for the daunting Rugby Championship trip down under with the squad leaving in two parties on Friday and Saturday. I believe he is fit and ready to go and he will be utilised in a versatile role, covering centre too, said Coetzee. He is the kind of player who really thrives in the Springbok environment and is very coachable. Unfortunately the call-up see the release of flyhalf Curwin Bosch. The 20-year-old prodigy didn&#8217;t really do himself much favours though. In a nervy debut against Argentina two weeks ago in Port Elizabeth, Bosch had a kick charged down and another one didn&#8217;t find touch. He wasn&#8217;t used last weekend in Salta. Coetzee stressed, however, that the release of Bosch doesn t mean he is not part of their plans any longer. It&#8217;s simply a sign that they are developing him, which is best served at the moment with the Sharks in the Currie Cup. We would like to see him carry the confidence he has gained during his time with the Springboks into the Currie Cup, explained Coetzee. He added Bosch has grown a lot during his time with them, and stressed all the coaches are pleased with his current development. He knows what is expected of him in this environment, and as I have said before, it is my responsibility to manage him properly at international level. Along with Pollard, wing Dillyn Leyds and scrumhalf Ross Cronje were also recalled with the latter missing the away trip to Salta last week due to a minor ankle injury. But there is still doubt over props Coenie Oosthuizen, who went for a scan on his injured ribs yesterday, and Ruan Dreyer, who welcomed his new-born son into the world on Monday and might still have to stay behind.