London &#8211; Nine-year-old mare Whitecrest is respected when she returns to the fray on the Lingfield turf today. John Spearing s honourable warrior won over course and distance in May and runs o the same mark of 71 in this 188Bet- sponsored handicap over 1200m. Her form has been solid enough since that narrow Lingfield success and she did better than her finishing position might have suggested at Good- wood on Friday. It is also good to see Luke Morris, who has won four times aboard Whitecrest, back in the saddle. Bogart can finally come good when he is sent into batte at Musselburgh. Trainer Kevin Ryan has been continually frustrated by the eight-year-old sprinter, who has not won a race since August 2013. But his last two runs at Thirsk tend to suggest there is still enough fire in his belly to claim a small race like this 1000m handicap. Bogart twice finished runner- up at the North Yorkshire circuit, but fortune has not been on his side. He could not do much more on both occasions, but simply bumped into better-handicapped horses in The Armed Man and, most recently, Memories Galore. This Listed-winning son of Bahamian Bounty has been left alone by the handicapper on an appealing mark of 81 in what is hardly an epic encounter. Quite where Ryan will go with Bogart if he takes a step backwards in Scotland is anyone s guess, so he should be trying his heart out. Magical Effect ought to go close in a 1400m handicap at Catterick. Ruth Carr s inmate has been in good order this month and tootled home in a race at Redcar on 12 August. He was then stepped up in grade for the Silver Trophy at Ripon and did not let anyone down, finishing third behind Teruntum Star and Red Pike. Nothing was finishing faster than Magical Effect so it makes perfect sense to give him another chance over this longer distance. This assignment also looks considerably easier than the Silver Trophy. Trappy stuff on the Kempton Polytrack, but See You Mush might be worth a little interest in the concluding 1200m handicap on the card. The three-year-old gelding has been in decent order since he switched stables in April and was not beaten too far by Firesnake at Chelmsford last time. &#8211; Press Association Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.