With Women s Day dominating the month Racing Express will use August to focus on women in horseracing. Ken Nicol had a chat to general manager of Avontuur Estate Pippa Mickleburg. What is your field of responsibility with-in the sport of horseracing? My job title is General Manager of Avontuur Estate near Stellenbosch, which I have been for 27 years. I am responsible for running all facets of the business, including the Stud, but also the wine farm and restaurant. As you can imagine it s a demanding job. What is it about your involvement that you love, or are passionate about? It all ultimately comes down to the horse. I do love the entire process from when a mating I put together a foal is produced which goes to the sales, and goes on to win a Grade 1 race. Then I think to myself that was my little foal and get great satisfaction from my plan coming together. As a woman, do you go about your work any differently from your male counterparts? If so, how? In the end you ve got to be the best. This is a male dominated business and I am up against some top class rivals. You have to win your client s trust and do the business, as shown by the fact that Avontuur has on numerous occasions topped the Average-Earnings-Per-Runner table. Do you take inspiration from other women, even historical figures outside of racing? If so, who and why? Early in my career I learned a lot from Pat O Neill at Hoog Eind. The meticulous way she prepped horses for sales and the way she handled the social side of the business made a great impression on me. What advice do you have for women wanting to get into the sport of horseracing? You have to be 100% committed to be-ing the best. This is a nice life but only if you are successful. It s a seven day a week job and often things like love life and marriage have to be put to the side. In a way you could say I am married to the farm. I ve given my heart and soul to it. It s definitely not a lifestyle for everybody. What words of inspiration do you have for other South African women? I ll end with a quote by Australian Pastoralist and Author Sara Henderson. Don t wait for a light to appear at the end of the tunnel, stride down there and light the bloody thing yourself. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.