London &#8211; Huntsmans Close can give his supporters a good run for their money in the Terry Mills &amp; John Akehurst Handicap at Epsom today. Robert Cowell&#8217;s charge is on his lowest mark for nearly three years, which probably is not a surprise given he has not actually won since 2015, but he has certainly not been bringing up the rear every time. The seven-year-old is obviously not quite the force that saw him hit the career-high mark of 102 he achieved with Roger Charlton, but he remains a useful tool, particularly off his current perch of 88. Huntsmans Close took a couple of runs to get going this term but he shaped with promise when beaten just a short head, conceding 0.5kg, by the re-opposing Highland Acclaim at this track in July. He has since gone to finish third in a moderate event at Yarmouth and while Huntsmans Close has to find that extra little bit with Highland Acclaim, he is worth a shout while in good heart. Oh It&#8217;s Saucepot is on a roll at present and can bring up her hat- trick in the Molson Coors Handicap. Chris Wall&#8217;s three-year-old found the winning groove after sliding down the handicap to a mark of 60 at Newmarket last month and showed she is even better than that when following up off a 3kg higher mark at Yarmouth. She won in decent style that day but will obviously have to improve again to defy an extra 2kg in this event. However, Oh It&#8217;s Saucepot is clearly coming on in leaps and bounds and her upward trajectory may not be finished yet. Rodaini has been highly tried so far but can make use of a step down in class for the Follow At Atheraces On Twitter Conditions Stakes at Ripon. Simon Crisford&#8217;s charge was a Listed winner at Doncaster last season and was subsequently tried in the very best company, finishing last in the Breeders&#8217; Cup Juvenile Turf last autumn. He shaped a little more promise when second in the Free Handicap on his return back in April but a lacklustre effort in the Heron Stakes at Sandown was following by another disappointing show at Group 3 level at Royal Ascot. Rodaini reverts to 1600m, a factor which should be in his favour, and given he is upwards of 5kg better of each of his rivals on the official numbers, this should be a straightforward task. Veejay can gain compensation for a narrow defeat last time in the 21 Engineer Regiment Sapper Nursery Handicap. Winner of his first two starts, he came massively unstuck against a subsequent Group 3 winner at Glorious Goodwood before being edged out by a head at Haydock on his next attempt. That effort was all the more creditable when factoring in his unfavourable draw and he remains a decent contender. Press Association Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.