The Equus Awards voting panel met at Greyville this weekend to decide the finalists for this season s awards. The voting panel comprised of Andrew Harrison, Matthew Lips, Jason Dedekind, Roger Smith, Michael Clower and RA chairman Larry Wainstein as non-voting chairperson. The panel submitted their first round of nominations after Vodacom Durban July Day and voting for the finalists took place after the Gold Cup race meeting. The categories and finalists are: Champion Two-year-old Colt distance immaterial: Eyes Wide Open, Mustaaqeem, Sand And Sea. Champion Two-year-old Filly distance immaterial: Brave Mary, Lady In Black Champion Three-year-old Colt distance immaterial: Al Sahem, Edict Of Nantes, Heavenly Blue, William Longsword. Champion Three-year-old Filly distance immaterial: Just Sensual, Lady Of The House. Champion Older Male distance immaterial: Captain America, Legal Eagle, Marinaresco, Whisky Baron. Champion Older Filly/Mare distance immaterial: Bela-Bela, Carry On Alice, Nightingale, Nother Russia. Champion Sprinter (1000 1200m; age/gender immaterial): Bull Valley, Carry On Alice, Rafeef. Champion Miler (1400 1600; age/gender immaterial): Bela-Bela, Captain America, Legal Eagle, William Longsword. Champion Middle Distance (1800 2200; age/gender immaterial): Legal Eagle, Marinaresco, Whisky Baron. Champion Stayer (2400m and up; age/gender immaterial): Al Sahem, Hermoso Mundo Voting Criteria The awards are based on graded races and in particular Grade 1 races. As regards the stayer category, the winning horse will be at the discretion of the voting panel. This decision was taken as the only Grade 1 race in SA is the SA Derby, which would mean that this should be the obvious winner based on a single run. This would also have excluded fillies and mares. Breeder Awards: Stallion of the Year Broodmare of the Year Breeder of the Year The Thoroughbred Breeders Association may include outstanding and/or international achievement awards. Individual Awards: Champion Apprentice Champion Jockey Champion Owner (based on stakes earned) Champion Trainer (based on stakes earned) Industry Merit Award Horse of the Year Award The awards are a glittering black tie gala event that takes place at the Convention Centre at Emperor s Palace on Tuesday, 15 August. Clyde Basel and Graeme Hawkins will be the masters of ceremonies for the evening and guests will be treated to an array of entertainment. There will also be an after party at the same venue. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.