Muzi Yeni wasted no time getting back in the winner s enclosure at Flamingo Park yesterday when he guided 17-10 shot Venice In May to a 2.25-length victory in Race 2. This was the first ride in South Africa for Yeni since falling foul of the racing authorities in Mauritius. He was accused of mixing with a bookmaker, which is prohibited in Mauritius. However, the bookmaker did not tell them about his profession and, in fact, said he was involved with fashion and music. Brandon Lerena and Raymond Danielson were also charged for the offence and handed a three-month ban but there were further insinuations regarding Yeni s conduct which put a stain on his character. Eventually the ban was lifted and all three are back riding in South Africa. Yeni rode in his first meeting since returning at Flamingo Park yesterday and could not have wished for a be er start. I thought he was my best ride on the day, said Yeni. However, he still feels he was unjustly treated by the racing authorities on the Indian Ocean Island. I felt it was unjust and they created so much speculation. It kept me away from my family. I am disappointed with the gambling board in Mauritius, but just glad to be back and be working he added. Trainer Corrie Lensley was delighted to have his first-choice jockey back. Welcome back to the kid. He s not the champion in Kimberley for nothing and he showed it again today, said Lensley. As far as Venice In May is concerned the trainer warned his charge would be a lot better over further. This race was so weak so I told the owner we should take a chance. Yeni was back in the No 1 box in Race 5 where he rode August Duke for the Stephen Mo a yard. In this event the 9-2 shot beat one of the so-called good things on the day, 17-10 favourite Cold Front, by a long head. Yeni wasted no time taking his mount to the front but in the final 200m was strongly challenged by the favourite. However, August Duke kept up gallantly to hold off Cold Front. One of the reasons I went to Mauritius is that I was struggling with a back injury and I thought racing once a week would help me. I ve been doing a lot of gym and the back s a lot better but it was good to fight it out with Craig (Zackey). He s had a good season so it s nice to know you still got it! Other than his two winners, Yeni finished second in Race 3 aboard Cash In Camilla who went down 2.25 lengths to Ahead Of Traffic and he was again runner- up with Bold Man in Race 7, who was beaten just 0.90 lengths by 44-1 winner Portman Square. He also finished third in Race 4 aboard The Big Chill, who was beaten 3.50 lengths by Somnium. Yeni has been a regular rider in Kimberley and has built up the reputation of being one of the best on the sand track at Flamingo Park. Last season, despite going off to Mauritius later in the season, he still finished top of the jockeys log, 19 winners clear of second-placed Gunter Wrogemann. He was the only jockey to get close to a win to ride ratio of just under 20%. In addition, 56.63% of his rides finished in the top four. Wrogemann was second on 47.49% while Ryan Munger was third with 35.71%. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.