The Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) started the process to amend the Companies Act of 2008, it said on Thursday. Dti Acting Deputy Director General for Consumer and Corporate Regulations, MacDonald Netshitenzhe, made the announcement at the International Company Law Seminar. He said that it was a result of the company law reform aimed at instilling corporate accountability, transparency and reduction of regulatory burden . Amending the Act would align problematic areas and enhance better interpretation of the provisions of the Act, Netshitenzhe said. We are going to Cabinet for broader consultations. Stakeholders and role players should be ready to engage during the public consultations to ensure policy objectives become a success. It is important forthe dti to engage, so as to understand the sections that are posing a challenge to practitioners as well as the economy at large. This is meant to ensure that the proposed amendments to the Companies Act are in line with global trends. The Act encourages economic stability through good governance and will enhance investor confidence and international and domestic competitiveness in the South African economy, Netshitenzhe said. Amongst others, the highlight is on three issues that may be relevant to this seminar for consideration, namely business rescue, social and ethics committees and the role of the Companies Tribunal. the dticommissioned a research on various cases of business rescue. The research revealed the fact that if business rescue ends in liquidation, it does not necessarily mean the rescue was a failure, said Netshitenzhe. He said that when measuring the success of business rescue, numbers of companies that emerged from business rescue as compared to those that have been liquidated must not be a barometer. The establishment of social and ethics committees in companies was important not only to protect the communities and the environment where companies operate, but for the protection of shareholders interests, Netshitenzhe said.