Energy Minister Mmamaloko Kubayi on Wednesday said she was not aware of a draft audit report that finds that two contracts entered into by the department of energy to prepare for the country s contested acquisition of new nuclear power plants were irregular. Minister Kubayi is not aware of the referred document and the contents thereof. Minister is further concerned how a document of this nature is shared with the public before it is shared with [the] executive authority, her office said in a statement. It was responding to media inquiries after Democratic Alliance (DA) energy spokesman Gordon Mackay claimed on Tuesday that he had obtained excerpts from the Auditor-General s report on the department. He said it showed that the department s contract with Central Lake Trading, trading as Empire Technology, for a Nuclear Procurement Management System failed to comply with Treasury regulations. The reasons stated in documents Mackay disseminated to the media, was that the system was not procured through SITA (the State Information Technology Agency), though it concerned information technology, and that the contract price and specifications did not match the original terms, put out to tender by the Free State provincial treasury. It was reported in September 2016 that Empire Technology had secured a deal worth R171 million for a system to manage the new nuclear build. At the time, the department of energy was still the designated lead agency for the nuclear expansion programme, before Cabinet shifted the responsibility to Eskom. Last year, Mackay said the deal had been inked on the back of an unspecified R60 million tender in the Free State. Media reports pointed out that the company belonged to Shantan Reddy, the son of business tycoon Govan Reddy, who is seen as a supporter of President Jacob Zuma. The document sent out by Mackay on Tuesday, notes that the product specification developed by the department must match what the contractor is currently providing to the first organ of state (the organ of state that secured the original contract) and should be at prices charged to that other organ of state . Mackay said a second contract awarded to Mahlako Phahla to play an advisory role in the procurement of new plants was found to be irregular for similar reasons. The department confirmed last year that it had awarded a short-term contract worth R20 million to the company, reportedly run by two chartered accountants, to advise on the readiness of the nuclear build programme. But Mackay claimed Auditor-General Kimi Makwetu has found that the contract issued by the department constituted a vast deviation from the original specifications to the tune of R15 million and that the department failed to secure written permission from National Treasury to expand the terms. This deviation meant that the DoE was, in fact, embarking on a new contract which would, in turn, need to be subjected to a new and separate competitive tender process, he said. A source in the Auditor-General s office said the report would only be tabled later this year and the institution could not comment on what was still an ongoing process. There was no official comment forthcoming from the AG, nor could it authenticate the copy of the report given to the media by Mackay.