They are often shamed and made to feel like something is wrong with them for not falling within the stereotypical ideas of what a woman should be, do or want. However the question is, if as human being we are all different; why can t we make different life choices? One such woman is Project Communications and Operations Manager of niche recording label, Jozi Unsigned Christine Msibi. She chats to us about why she doesn t have children and how her decision was received by those around her. 1. I can t pinpoint the exact moment I came to realize that I didn t want children. I ve never had a yearning to be a mother. But, I do love children. I m always conscious of the kind of interactions I have with children because I want to leave them with a lasting impression. I have three God children with whom I have active and happy relationships with. 2. I introduce this subject early on in my relationships. My previous and current relationships were with people that I had known for a while, and I had told them about my decision to not have children or get married. Throughout my school years, I always mentioned that I wanted to adopt a troublesome 15-year-old multiracial boy and raise him in Soweto to challenge the world s perception of culture. I m pro-adoption. But I m in a relationship with a man who, given a choice, would prefer for us to have our own children as opposed to adoption. I ve even considered donating my eggs, but I can t imagine anyone carrying my DNA somewhere in the world. 3. I don t feel any less of a woman. These stereotypes are narrow, and limit what women can be and achieve outside of the boxes they ve been put in. I have been in a relationship for five years and at the beginning, my partner found it cool that I didn t want to have children. This is because the relationship would remain fun and easy. All the love and affection that would go to a child is redirected to us, and I have a full life. Christine Thabisile Msibi 4. I have received mixed reactions from my family, friends and strangers because of my decision. I ve always been true to myself, and never easily persuaded into societal norms. Those around me have witnessed the love and passion I have for children. My aunt, who is a teacher, once mentioned that people who loved children like I did usually didn t have their own. My friends, on the other hand, thought it was a phase that I would eventually outgrow. SEE ALSO: Oprah and Shonda Rhimes talk about never getting married, saying yes to new experiences and success 5. I am responsible with my sex life. I use condoms to prevent pregnancy. If I were to fall pregnant I would terminate it, and this is something that I have done before. When I was 26, I was engaged and fell pregnant. I knew that I didn t want to get married nor have children. So, I told my then partner that there were complications with the pregnancy, and that I had to terminate it. He accepted this, and never questioned me. 6. It s okay not to want children, especially as black people. Many of us have helped to raise a child within our families, and it is fine to not want our own. I encourage people to adopt. This doesn t only mean welcoming someone into your home, but also opening your heart to children in need, and loving them. Brought to you by Bona magazine