Muzi Yeni, the king of sand has been flying the South African flag in Greece and will miss today s Kimberley meeting. As a result, the Corrie Lensley yard will be without their main jockey and have booked champion jockey S manga Khumalo to ride for them, making this partnership one to follow. The partnership kicks off in Race 1, a Maiden Plate over 1600m when Lensley sends out Elysian Fields. This gelding turns out in his first run for the stable after moving from Duncan Howells yard in KwaZulu-Natal in February. History has proven that KZN horses who relocate to Kimberley tend to flourish. Such could be the case for this three-year-old. He is the best handicapped runner in the race, jumps from draw No 10 and shoulders 60kg which shouldn t be much of a disadvantage. His first run over 1000m when second behind Phantom Rock is the closest he s ever been to winning so he should have a big say here. While Khumalo has a full card of rides for the 10-race meeting, it is perhaps best to ignore his rides in race 2 and 3 where his mounts have shown little form, and wait for his ride aboard Miesque s Secret in Race 4, a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1600m. This filly has proven rather costly to follow but that could change today. She jumps from draw No 9 and will carry equal weights with the field at 60kg which should increase her chances. Khumalo makes for great Eachway bets in Race 5 aboard King Of Cant and Race 6 on One Cool Cat. Lensley and Khumalo hold a strong hand on Ahead Of Traffic in the main event, the Flamingo Park Handicap (Non-Black Type) over 1800m. He impressed in his last run when 7.50 lengths clear of the field. He jumps from draw No 1 and shoulder a modest 54kg respect. Khumalo then rides Lady Duchess in Race 9, a FM 71 Handicap over 1600m. She loves this distance and won easily last time. She jumps from a bad No 12 draw and will shoulder a heavy 60kg however her class should see her through. To close off the day Khumalo is aboard Roy s Dispren in Race 10. This Windrush gelding wasn t disgraced last time out and could well return to winning ways. He jumps from draw No 4 and will shoulder 59kg. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;