Many times, women have been accused of milking men of their hard earned cash. Some women were always pursuing wealthy men with the hope of sharing their fortunes.However, tables are turning with the emergence of mercenary bachelors in town. They are handsome enterprising men. Money and good lifestyle is all they need. I will quickly tell you story of my friend who is currently a spinster.I have a friend whom we will call Melby . She wanted to settle down and she had a great job, a good car, a house and sexy look to boot.She also had a good education and had several properties to her name.She desperately wanted to settle down but seemingly men were afraid of her. So one day, she met this prince charming who took her to an upscale restaurant in Masaki and they both ordered expensive food and drinks. Once done, the guy, whom we will call Ted requested her to pay claiming his visa card had issues.They met for the second time and after they were done with drinks, the man again gave an excuse and failed to pay. She then took to the hills though this millennial now thought he had gotten an easy prey and a running tap of cash. Well he was wrong as she went for good.Let s now talk about these male gold diggers. There is this evolving concept of romance that not all people who fall for each other fall in love.Some fall for the opportunities and the benefits that come with the person hence romance with benefit notion. Though some women are also gold diggers, more men have joined them in this booming game. Taming someone to see who would sacrifice anything for money.Some men are also seeking wealthy benefactors just as some of their female counterparts seek the so-called sponsors. What happened to working hard to earn a decent living? With the changing ideals in gender roles, women should now watch out for these men who have become modern day opportunists. Thye for nothing but self-enrichment, all the while playing with women s emotions.Do not become easy prey for these hungry men. They will use you and then leave you without warning. If it s love and affection that you are seeking, then you have to be very cautious, lest you find yourself going to bed with every Tom, Dick and Harry.