Two men charged with the murder of an off-duty policeman were both gravely implicated and placed at the scene of the alleged crime in a confession read out in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Wednesday. Charles Nqaba, 24, and Jabulani Mkaba, 26, are on trial for the murder of Constable Devon Hattingh. Hattingh was allegedly gunned down while escorting a truck to Motherwell during July 2014. At the time, he was off duty and doing extra work to supplement his income. The father of three, and his wife Blanche, were both stationed at Mount Road Police Station. On the day of his killing, the couple had worked their last shift together. Blanche still drives the same silver VW polo that her husband was allegedly gunned down in while sitting in the driver s seat. Colonel MC &#8220;Jackie&#8221; Grobler read out Nqaba s confession which the court ruled as admissible evidence following a trial within a trial. Jabu said to me that in the main road there is a cargo truck that he wants to take. He also explained that he and his friend is going to take the cargo truck and that I will have to to drive the Ford Fiesta. I then said it is not a problem and that I will drive the car. They then opened the boot and took out their jackets. I did not see any firearms, Nqaba s confession read. Nqaba claimed that Jabu and his friend Zim disappeared from his sight and the next thing he heard was gunshots. I heard gunshots and then saw Jabu and Zim come running from the main road into the same passage, but took another direction. I also tried to get away because of the shots I heard. I realised something was wrong and that is why I wanted to get away. I never had a firearm and did not shoot or kill anyone. I was arrested by police in the Ford Fiesta. However, speaking through his attorney, Nqaba denied the contents of his confession and claimed that the investigating officer and his team told him what to say . According to papers before court, Hattingh was observing the truck a short distance away when he was approached by men who started firing shots. He sustained gunshot wounds to his body and died at the scene. During the shooting, two police officers were patrolling the area. According to the state, Sergeant Sisanda Qokosa and Constable Vuyani Libi saw the shooting and stopped their car. When the accused noticed the police officers they opened fire on them and fled the scene. One of the men ran away on foot while the other drove off in a white Ford Fiesta. Police later tracked down Nqaba and the Ford Fiesta was recovered a short distance from where the shooting incident took place. Mkaba was arrested at a later stage. Both men are facing charges of murder, attempted murder and the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. The state alleges that the accused acted together with common purpose. The trial continues. African News Agency (ANA)