For the past four years, wearing spectacles has been part of life of 15-year-old Grace Michael. She went through months of struggling while in school before she was advised to wear glasses.She began having eye problems when she was in standard seven. I remember how hard it was for me to look at the blackboard. At first, I used to sit in the middle rows of the classrooms, although I wasn t comfortable at all. But with time I had to ask my teachers to move me to the front row of my class, Grace told Your Health.Grace struggled for months. She further added, I had to squeeze my eyes tight to see what was written on the blackboard, but I didn t take it seriously until I went to boarding school for my secondary education in Moshi. The young teenager lasted for only two terms in Moshi, thereafter she was shifted to come and study in Dar es Salaam at Tegeta High School. The decision was made after Grace told her father that she could no longer handle her vision problems.The many cases in the countryGrace is not alone in this, her case is one among many cases that children, particularly school going children, have been facing for many years. Apparently majority of them have been suffering with little knowledge of what is really happening to their eyesight.According to Grace s father, Michael Mrema, her daughter s problem was attributed to nutritional factor. I remember I was told by the eye specialist that my daughter needs to have more green vegetables and certain fruits to improve her condition because it is what she lacked most in her body, explained Grace s father in an interview with Your Health.Grace s father chose to get spectacles for her, as prescribed by the eye specialist. I took the doctor s advise seriously so that she wouldn t have to struggle anymore in school and let the rest take care of itself in the process, said Mr Michael.The relationship between nutrition and eyesight can be affirmed by a Dar es Salaam based Nutritionist, Neema Shosho who works as a Nutrition Advisor at the Embassy of Ireland Tanzania.According to her, a lot of children have been faced with eye problems because they lack certain important food components.Ms Shosho tells Your Health that the common problem that many teenagers face is the night blindness , which is largely caused by nearsightedness, cataracts, or vitamin A deficiency. She adds, This is a common problem and a person can fail to see and the situation gets worse during the night. If not treated earlier, he or she might lose their ability to see. If they take an early precaution then they might be able to correct and improve their nearsighted vision both during the day and at night. Vitamin A for good vision, a fact not a fictionMs Shosho says that in Tanzania, there is a policy of providing vitamin A drops for children under five years of age, twice a year, at no cost in government hospitals. This policy is in place because it has been realised that vitamin A is an essential requirement for vision and for boosting immune function. A deficiency in vitamin A can lead to blindness especially in children and increased viral infection, the nutritionist cautions.She says vitamin A comes in two types. One is called retinol, which is found mostly in animal products including eggs, meat, fish and liver.Whereas the second type, which is called pro-vitamin A is found in plant-based foods such as fruits and vegetables By looking at the type of food mentioned above it is obvious that most schools cannot afford to give all those type of food to their students. Majority of foods the students get in school are basically plain, lacking nutrients, they don t have all the source for vitamins needed and this is where the problem starts, explains the nutritionist.She went further saying that most schools cannot offer enough vegetables and even if they do they are sometimes over cooked. The vegetable can be overcooked or even fruits you will find are being served once, either in the afternoons or during the evening meals, the nutritionist tells a fact.She recommends that children should have 3 up to 5 portions of fruits and green vegetables per day.Eye disease associated with poor nutritionTasneem Bodalbhai, an Optometrist based in Dar es Salaam says that according to her, cases of children and teenage patients visiting her clinic, is on the rise in the diagnosis of what is called general optic neuropathy.Ms Bodalbhai explains to Your Health that optic neuropathy refers to damage to the optic nerve due to any cause, often associated with the loss of vision or colours appearing subtly washed out.She says the issues of eye problem in students particularly, has been common and most of them are diagnosed very late. This is most common in boarding school students.They receive a lot of such cases during school holidays between December and January and also during the midterm holiday in June and July. They come here complaining of poor vision and upon questioning them, I realise that the main cause of such is due to poor nutrition. We ask them what kinds of foods they consume while in school, Ms Bodalbhai shares her experience.She continues Majority will say they consume cassava and potatoes and never incorporate greens in their meals. Because foods with little or none nutrients are easily available at a cheaper price, students prefer that over the fruits and greens. According to her diagnosis, majority of these students have general neuropathy, which affects the whole body. They sometimes also complain of having numbness in their hands and other parts of the body, she explains one of the symptoms.Ms Bodalbhai cautions the parents that if parents bring their children early for treatment once they start to show the symptoms, then treatment won t take long unlike when they come at a later stage, prolonging the prognosis.Ms Bodalbhai identified some of the symptoms that children might have including their struggle to see on the board. They might complain that they struggle to see on the board, therefore are forced to sit on the front row of the class for them to see clearly. This problem apparently can t just be corrected with glasses, therefore, the first thing we do is to give them medication which includes vitamins since this is what they lack the most in their poor diet, she tells.The reality of the boarding schoolsFahamuel Mnzava, White Lake High School s Academic Master, a boarding school based in Dar es Salaam tells Your Health that his school has been trying to provide the right menu for its students and even for those with special diet, the school has done its best to accommodate them. Our staple menu includes Makande (mixture of cooked beans and maize), Ugali, and rice. We also have days where we give the students vegetables, fruits and meat but not all the days, he explains.What this school offers is not different from many boarding schools here in Tanzania, and the case is worse for some boarding schools where the availability of foods such as meat and vegetable are limited to none.A survey tittle Optic neuropathy endemic in secondary school children in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania , published in 2009 in The British journal of ophthalmology, showed a large survey of secondary school children in Dar es Salaam primarily to investigate the prevalence and types of refractive error and strategies for screening and treatment, but also to investigate other causes of non-refractive visual impairment, including epidemic optic neuropathy.The survey involved school children aged 10 to 16 years identified optic neuropathy to be an important cause of visual impairment, with a prevalence of 1 per cent. The disease usually presents in older children and young adults who complain of subacute visual loss and doesn t have a definite cause but nutritional element has been associated with it.Ms Bodalbhai cautions that for treatment to be effective, it might take months or years because the process of recovering is very slow. Because of this, some patients become easily frustrated with the whole treatment process because it takes a long time to get the good results, something which needs a lot of patience and perseverance. Her advice is for schools to provide foods that have high nutritional value, including greens and fruits in their meals because majority of these children are still growing up.Schools especially those which have boarding facilities have been trying to come up with a menu, which can meet the nutritional needs of their students.Two cents from an eye specialistDr Mustafa Imani, an ophthalmologist from Kairuki Memorial Hospital recommends that parents should take precaution by taking their children for eye treatment when they see any signs of eye problem. Children usually don t complain but mostly teachers have been the ones who notice the problem. Once parents are consulted they need to see an eye specialist for help. It s unfortunate that some parents don t take the complains they receive from their children seriously.Therefore, they delay the treatment fearing that their children might have to wear glasses at a young age, which the parents deem wrong. Some problem don t need to be corrected by the use of glasses, he advises.He says he has been receiving cases of eye problems of youth, in particular those who stay in hostels and their problem have been intrigued by the type of food they consume. When asked, most of them would tell you that they eat a lot of chips, rice and beans instead of proper diet. Usually this eye problems don t robe your vision on the spot instead it does slowly, he reveals to Your Health.He recommends children to have their eyes checked by an eye specialists throughout the school years.