Although there is a dark cloud hanging over South African independent record label Mabala Noise Entertainment amid the recent negative publicity following rapper Riky Rick s announcement that he is leaving the label and rumours that Major League DJz, brothers Bandile and Banele Mbere are also on their way out, rapper Nasty C is still singing its praises. Mabala Noise has helped me by building a lot of needed connections, said Nasty C. I did my part by bringing a fresh, new sound and taste to the label. The rapper says although he is now a well-known artist, the journey was not always easy. Like with any other musician, it was hard in the beginning as I received a lot of criticism, he said, in a tone which indicated he didn t want to discuss the issue any further. The 20-year-old, who won multiple Metro FM Awards this year, giving rise to speculation that the awards are fixed because Mabala Noise puts millions into the event, says he couldn t be happier about his surprising triumphs. I m very excited and I appreciate that a lot of people recognise my music, he said. People should definitely expect a lot more great music on a different scale. But he refused to reveal anything about his upcoming music or projects. Asked about the exchange of words on social media between him and respected musician, Dr Malinga, in which the latter expressed the view that Nasty C should not have won the Metro FM Awards, Nasty C said he didn t wish to talk about it. The Durban-born talent, who describes himself as hard-working, focused and passionate about music, doesn t like to put his music in a box or give it a specific label. He said: I don t like to define my sound. I make music for the people, not for myself. The rapper says although a lot of people have misconceptions about him, the most common misunderstanding they had was that he couldn t speak Zulu. But he says he understands this is because most people have never heard him use a word of that language. Born David Junior Ngcobo, Nasty C says he became aware of his great love for music at the age of nine. The first producer he worked with gave him the stage name, Nasty C. He released his first mix tape, One Kid a Thousand Coffins, on May 24, 2013. He later released his major single Juice Back, which spawned a remix featuring Davido and Cassper Nyovest. He released his debut album, Bad Hair Extensions, in mid-2016, featuring Hell Naw, a track that won the hearts of many hip-hop lovers. Nasty C calls Dr Malinga a &#8216;103-year-old f**king gimmick&#8217; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.