On average, girls start puberty between the ages of 8 and 13, but some will start to develop breasts, pubic hair, or body odour before age 8. The technical term for this is precocious puberty. Girls are more likely than boys to develop precocious puberty.Watching your daughter become a woman can be an emotional roller coaster under normal circumstances. But when puberty starts early, it can really be distressing.Most of the time there s nothing seriously wrong your child is probably just on the early side of normal. And although she may suffer some social or physical awkwardness for a time, the rest of her class won t be far behind.There aren t likely to be any long-term physical effects from starting puberty early except one: Initially your child may be taller than her peers, but an early growth spurt could leave her shorter than average as an adult.How to tellDeveloping breasts is usually the first sign of puberty in girls. You may first notice small mounds beneath the nipple area. One breast may start growing earlier than the other, and they may feel tender when touched.This is often followed by the growth of pubic hair, body odour, and acne. Your daughter will probably also grow several inches in height and develop wider hips and a slimmer waist during puberty.She may become moody and irritable. She ll likely have a white or yellow mucus discharge from her vagina and will start menstruating anywhere from one and a half to three years after her breasts start developing. Underarm hair also usually shows up near the end of puberty. The whole process usually takes about two and a half to three years, but it can take up to five years.If these things start happening at age 7 or 8, that may seem too soon to you, but it s within the range of normal.Should I call the doctor?If your daughter is 7 or younger and is showing any signs of puberty, let her doctor know.On their own, budding breasts or pubic hair don t necessarily mean that full-fledged puberty has begun it could be several more years before all the necessary hormones kick in but if you notice her breasts developing quickly over a 4- to 6-month period and she s suddenly growing a lot taller, it s important for her to be seen right away.What causes precocious puberty?The medical term for most cases of early puberty is central precocious puberty (CPP), in which the hypothalamus and pituitary gland activate and start producing hormones earlier than usual. There s usually no underlying medical cause for this activation puberty simply begins earlier for reasons that scientists don t fully understand.Some experts believe genetics might play a part in CPP. Mothers who had their first period at age 10 or younger have daughters with a higher chance of developing CPP. Other experts speculate that chemicals in the environment can cause CPP, but there s no hard evidence to confirm this theory.About 10 to 20 percent of CPP are caused by medical conditions such as brain or spinal cord lesions, structural problem in the brain, radiation of the central nervous system (for cancer treatment), genetic disorder and others.How is precocious puberty evaluated and treated?First the doctor will go over your child s medical history and ask when you and other members of your family began puberty. Then she ll examine your child s breast and genital areas carefully. (Sometimes what looks like the beginning of breasts is really just a bit of excess body fat.)If the findings are abnormal or medication is being considered, you ll be referred to an endocrinologist a doctor who specialises in the body s hormone-secreting glands.How can I support my daughter during early puberty?For most children, being different is painful, and physical differences can be particularly embarrassing for girls. It will be up to you to reassure, comfort, and support your daughter through her daily difficulties, but don t hesitate to get emotional help for your child or for yourself if you need it. Tell your daughter the truth about what s going on with her body. Make sure she knows that these changes are normal they re just happening a little sooner for her. Her friends will soon go through the same things.Early signs of puberty can invite teasing, especially for girls. Stay in touch with your child s teachers and watch your daughter for signs of withdrawal or depression. Try to keep your child involved in regular activities, including sports and sleepovers.Despite your child s physical development, she s still a child. Don t expect her to act as old as she looks. There are lots of books about puberty. Take time to read and talk together. You can turn this into an opportunity to open doors. Your child feels comfortable with you right now. Use this time to bond, to get yourselves talking about your child s emerging sexuality.You ll also probably want to help your daughter adjust to her new body by taking her shopping for bras, deodorant, and skin care products as they become necessary. And try not to worry too much. Early or late, puberty is something that we all eventually manage to survive.Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz