Andrew John is a Grade One pupil in one of Dar es Salaam s English medium schools. Each time he comes back home in the afternoon he has either scratches of cuts on his body.Children s safety while in school is something that worries parents and teachers equally.Having children and staff who are well equipped with first aid skills make a great difference in the entire safety of the schools because any emergency that occurs can be handled immediately.It is the parents and teachers priorities to keep children safe. They all need to learn on how to protect children while they are in and out the school.Apart from that it is important to show them what they have to do in an emergency situation and where to call for help.First aid training is not only gives children the ability to save when there is an emergency but it also boost their confidence.Therefore through first aid training in schools they can learn to be responsible for others too.Tatu Twaha is a pupil at Msimbazi Primary School. Tatu doesn t know anything about the First Aid box. According to her when an accident or any emergency occurs she runs to call her teacher or any other elder for help. I think when such a situation occurs it is safe for us to run to our teachers for help instead of depending on fellow pupils, because most of us know nothing about First Aid, says the 10-year-old.Rose Njau is a teacher at Mtongani Primary School she believes it is important to teach children how to give First Aid. We parents and teachers should emphasize to our children on learning on how to offer emergence help. The problem is this most of us think these children are too young to save life.But in reality this education equips children with techniques which could help in saving the lives of their fellow children, says Rose Njau. She adds: With the training our children will be safe in the event of an emergency because they will be able to attend to the problem right away.She recalls her own days as a young girl in school when one of her friends fainted and they didn t know what to do . Luckily there was one sport teacher who helped him with the first aid to save his life. Therefore it is very important teaching children the important of First Aid because no one knows or can predict when an emergency may occur.What is First Aid?We all need help at times in our lives. We all have accidents now and again and we all get hurt.When we are injured or suddenly unwell, what we want and need is someone to help us someone who knows what to do. First aid is all about helping people in situations like this.This website will help you learn first aid so that you know what to do. It s easier than you think, and there are simple things that you can do to help.