Curwin Bosch contributed 18 points as the Sharks clinched an impressive 38-30 Super Rugby win over the Cheetahs in Bloemfontein on Saturday. Besides the outstanding kicking performance from Bosch, winger Kobus van Wyk scored two tries as the Sharks clinched a result that will serve as a considerable morale-booster for the remainder of the season. After last weekend s indifferent display against the Kings, the Sharks produced a clinical all-round effort to tame the Cheetahs and overturn a five-point half-time deficit. The Cheetahs struck first with an early penalty to flyhalf Fred Zeilinga, but the Sharks quickly came into their own and enjoyed the better of the exchanges for the remainder of the opening quarter. The visitors were duly rewarded when a beautifully worked try was finished off by Lwazi Mvovo, while a penalty from Curwin Bosch gave them a handy 10-3 lead early on. Besides conceding a host of penalties, the Cheetahs ill-discipline continued to cost them when Oupa Mohoje was shown a yellow card for a dangerous tackle, with Sharks winger Kobus van Wyk scoring immediately afterwards. However, the Cheetahs did exceptionally well to hit right back as captain Francois Venter broke through the Sharks defence to score under the posts just after the half an hour mark. That score, along with a yellow card to Sharks prop Coenie Oosthuizen for a reckless tackle, suddenly sparked a complete momentum shift. Soon after, Zeilinga slotted a second penalty, while the Cheetahs then struck a crucial blow just before the break when JW Jonker was put away to score in the corner to suddenly hand his side a five-point lead at the break. Zeilinga extended that advantage with another penalty soon after the restart, but the match continued to ebb and flow as Van Wyk pounced on a loose ball to dash over for his second try soon after. Bosch then stepped up to slot another superb penalty in the 57th minute to put the Sharks back into the lead heading into the final quarter. With momentum back on their side, the Sharks then virtually secured the result when replacement Dan du Preez barged over the tryline from the back of a driving lineout. Bosch slotted the touchline conversion and two more penalties from there, and while the Cheetahs did score a late try through Raymond Rhule, the Sharks went on to celebrate a a hard-fought victory. Point scorers: Cheetahs 30 (20): Tries: Francois Venter, JW Jonker, Raymond Rhule. Conversions: Fred Zeilinga (3). Penalties: Zeilinga (3). Sharks 38 (15): Tries: Lwazi Mvovo, Kobus van Wyk (2), Dan du Preez. Conversions: Curwin Bosch (3). Penalties: Bosch (4). For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.