The National Treasury has denied being part of ongoing negotiations between Social Development Department and contractor Cash Paymaster Services to renew the Net1 subsidiary s contract to pay welfare grants and pensions payments to some 17 million South Africans from April. Following several media enquiries about National Treasury s participation in the negotiations with CPS for the contract for payment of grants, National Treasury wishes to clarify that, it is not part of this process, Treasury said on Friday. Treasury said upon receiving a request from the department to be part of the negotiations, it advised that the responsibility lied with the accounting officer of the department, and not Treasury. Sassa, which falls under the Social Development Department, has come under scrutiny because the problematic contract it has with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) ends this month. No new arrangements have been finalised to pay social grants in April. The CPS tender to distribute billions of rands in monthly grants was deemed illegal by the Constitutional Court back in 2014, but the court suspended its rule so as not have grant payment interrupted. However, the contract runs out at the end of the month and it has emerged that Sassa is not ready to take over the payment function, as had been been planned. As a result there are growing concerns about a possible crisis. Earlier, Minister Bathabile Dlamini s Social Development Department said she held a meeting with nine provincial social development MECs, Sassa and and the National Development Agency (NDA) to brief them about ongoing negotiations, which included the Treasury, on April deadlines. The meeting noted and acknowledged the negotiations currently underway between The Department of Social Development, Sassa, the National Treasury and CPS regarding a transitional arrangement while the agency is putting in place all necessary measures to become a paymaster of social grants in South Africa as envisaged in the South African Social Security Act (Sassa), Act 9 of 2004, the department said. The meeting recommended that the department, Sassa and the NDA (National Development Agency) embark on a nationwide public and stakeholder campaign to allay public fear and anxiety surrounding the payment of social grants beyond 31 March 2017, said the department. The meeting reiterated government s assurance that all eligible social grants beneficiaries will receive their money on time. The meeting further committed itself to working with and supporting all the critical steps that Sassa outlined in the institutionalisation of the social grants payment process. The director general of social development, Zane Dangor, this week confirmed that it is expecting National Treasury to waive procurement rules to allow the contract to go to CPS, which is the sole bidder. National Treasury has indicated that it is not prepared to do so. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.