There will be a lot of speed on show at Turffontein tomorrow as the three Listed races are all over 1000m. The Storm Bird Stakes, Race 6, and the Ruffian Stakes for fillies, Race 7, are both for juveniles and possibly the most exciting two-year-old seen so far on the High veld has been Kissable who heads up the fillies field. Trained by Paul Matchett, this daughter of Antonius Pius has raced twice for two facile victo ries. She won her maiden over 800m by 6.40 lengths and remarkably three winners have come from that line-up. That indicates she was not just the best filly in a field of wags as her time of 45.25sec was remarkable. When she next ran over 1000m it was in yielding going and if she had flaws the conditions would find her out. As was the case in her previous start she was out the stalls in a flash and built up a size able lead. Most people expected her to fold but she just kept on re lentlessly to win that race by 7.50 lengths. She was just so relaxed and she did it so easily, said jock ey Randall Simons after the race. She has been priced up at 5-10, which comes as no surprise. The only danger looks to be Daring Diva from the Barend Bo tes yard who is also unbeaten in two starts. Andrew Fortune takes the ride. The Storm Bird Stakes seem far more open but the Mike de Kock yard look to have a strong hand with Alfolk and Punta Cana. They have both run once for one win but it is hard to make a com parison. Callan Murray, who rode Alfolk first time out takes the ride again while Simons, who was on Punta Cana, is aboard once again so there is little to tell from the jockey arrangements. Both started strong favourites to win their races but Alfolk could be the better as he won in the fast er time. Corne Spies saddles three run ners and the pick of the trio could be Quinlan, the ride of Craig Zackey. Alpine Echo and Barrack Street also must be respected while Crassus, who finished a 2.75-length second to Alfolk, is now 3kg better off. Race 8, the Bauhinia Handicap is for fillies and mares and based on her 0.75-length second behind Green Pepper Joan Ranger, with Piere Strydom up, looks the run ner to beat. However, she does have 61.5kg on her back. That means she will also have to give 9.5kg to Lady Of The World who is very highly rated by jockey Marco van Rensburg. She has won her last three and Weichong Mar wing commented after her last victory that this daughter of Great Britain was still learning. &nbsp;