Top Shot looks the form horse in Race 7 at Turf fontein tomorrow, a MR 88 Handicap over 1600m on the Inside track. In his last start the Gary Alex ander-trained runner showed a lot of courage to hold off the atten tions of Irish Pride in a Pinnacle Stakes over 1600m on the Stand side track. Shrewdly ridden by JP van de Merwe, Top Shot got the advantage over his rival and kept on strongly to beat him by 0.50 lengths. Irish Pride franked the form by winning the Listed Wolf Power 1600m on the Inside track, hold ing off Rafeef by 0.80 lengths and De Kock s charge further con firmed that form by coming out on top in the Grade 2 Hawaii Stakes over 1400m at Turffontein on Sat urday. So that makes Top Shot s last run extremely impressive and he could have too much in hand for his rivals in this event. Andrew Fortune is back aboard the five-year-old gelding on this occasion. However, it is a handicap and they often throw some upsets. But there are some form lines that back-up Top Shot s credibility. The De Kock yard send out Fareeq but he was beaten five lengths by Irish Pride in the Wolf Power and at the weights should battle to beat Top Shot. The main threat could come from Sean Tarry-trained Bold Vi king. This three-year-old son of Black Minnaloushe won on debut and then was sent to KwaZulu- Natal to contest the R1-million Bloodstock SA Million Sprint (Non-Black Type) over 1200m at Scottsville in August last year. He lost ground at the start, cast a shoe and did well to finish sixth, 5.65 lengths behind Hack Green. He had two more runs, includ ing the Grade 3 Graham Beck Stakes over 1400m on the Stand side track but failed to perform. Bold Viking was then gelded and came back well to run a 1.45-length fourth behind Golden Man in a MR 80 Handicap at the Vaal. He will race with blinkers, with just 52kg and in-form apprentice Lyle Hewitson on his back, could be upset material. Cockade has taken a while to come to his best but he was lightly raced and now the six-year-old seems to be enjoying his racing. Lucky Houdalakis has his string in form and if he does have the necessary class, Cockade has to be a contender. He is drawn well and has Marco van Rensburg in the irons. Stablemate Street Flyer won over 1400m at the Vaal last Thurs day and will now carry 55kg. He has won over 1800m and could fol low up. Karl Zechner rides.