Did you know that a curvy body that is dressed right can stop traffic in the middle of the highway? When you don that dress or trouser that hug your curves, you attract admirers like a box of chocolates. And you will agree with me that when curvy women shake their stuff on the dance floor, all the attention shifts towards their direction.That is why at Woman desk today, we are telling you to embrace what you have and never be ashamed of being curvy. You don t know how many women are dying to have those curves.Perhaps you have been made to lose your confidence over the years as the modeling and advertising industries go for leaner women. This should not make you feel that having some huge assets is a bad thing; it is a plus in fact.And the good news is that even the fashion industry is slowly embracing the curvy bodies. Who lied to you that a perfect body should not go beyond 24-inch waist? Who said that size zero is what everyone needs? I know of many women who have missed out on beautiful outfits just because it is many sizes smaller and it doesn t come in bigger size.This makes shopping for good clothes mission impossible for plus sized women. Listen,we should celebrate our own sexiness and bodies just as they are.We should note that the curvy body is revolutionising the fashion industry as all women are celebrated through various styles and designs.Whether you are short and plump, whether tall and plump, whether slim and tall or slim and short, there will always be something to suit your needs. The clothes we have in the stores these days embrace the body since each shape is currently represented in the fashion industry.I am not saying being slender is bad and neither am I encouraging anyone to go and over indulge to get more kilos.I am simply bringing out the point that we should appreciate our body shapes since they are unique and beautiful.I remember having an acquaintance who would never wear trousers because she believed it exaggerated her booty such that men would ogle as she walked in the city streets. She resorted to wearing long skirts with gathers to hide her assets! We need to feel sexy, confident and beautiful without the need to hide our bodies.