The South African National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) has appointed Ismail Essa as Sanral s transformation manager effective from April 1 to report directly to the CEO, the state-owned company said on Sunday. The time to bolster government s economic transformation priorities is now. One of Mr Essa s immediate priorities will be to ensure sub-sector transformation across the supply value chain we deal with, Sanral CEO Skhumbuzo Macozoma said in a statement. This will include, among others, construction work, maintenance, property and operations, professional services, and non-core services. Secondly, he has been tasked with ensuring that Sanral creates an enabling environment for small contractors, particularly black-owned ones, to access opportunities through procurement, he said. Macozoma said the new position had been set up to fundamentally direct spending towards emerging black-owned enterprises . Essa, a qualified civil engineer, was an industry heavyweight with 36 years experience within the roads and civil engineering sector. Backed by 21 years experience as a contractor with a major listed company in South Africa, Essa first joined Sanral in 2001 as a senior project manager. Within two years, he was promoted to regional manager for the Northern Region (Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Limpopo, and North West), a position he had held for the past 14 years. Reacting to his appointment, Essa said he believed his past experience would be instrumental in this new role. He understood private sector operations and the need to create inclusive opportunities towards transformation of the economy. The industry has been transforming slowly; our intent now is to give renewed impetus to the progress thus far made. Sanral service providers need to reflect the demographics of the country. It is now my job to reduce dominance by big contractors as this is a major barrier for small and new contractors and consultants in accessing opportunities offered by Sanral, Essa said. The transformation is not limited to contractors and consultants, no doubt the largest group of service providers, but all our suppliers will be affected by our transformation policies. At an appropriate time we will have a stakeholder engagement in the form of a conference with all our suppliers, he said. Sanral s design and construction manager in the Northern Region Willem van der Merwe would be acting regional manager for the northern region until the position had been filled. African News Agency (ANA)