EnviroServ has said that a decision taken by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to criminally charge the company for its contentious Shongweni landfill is premature and that it will oppose the charges. EnviroServ group chief executive, Dean Thompson, on Friday acknowledged that the company had been served with criminal charges, relating to operations at the landfill. In view of certain agreements concluded with the Department of Environmental Affairs as recently as on 15 February 2017, we believe the NPA s decision is premature, has omitted to consider a number of relevant considerations put to the Department and will therefore be opposed, said Thompson. We have been in a consultative process with the authorities for four months now, and an agreed process has been in place which only ends in April. The charges therefore come as a surprise to us as we are still awaiting reports by the independent experts, which will contain conclusive facts that inevitably will have a significant impact on the matter. Since this matter is now before the court, however, it is sub judice. We have full confidence that our technical and legal team will clear the company name, said Thompson. The company has come under fire from community members living near and around the hazardous waste landfill, who believe that toxic fumes from the site have been making them ill, along with their pets and livestock. Children have been particularly negatively affected by the noxious odours, they say. The smell was first detected in Plantations Estate, an upmarket housing complex about five kilometres from the landfill, in December of 2015. However, residents living in the surrounding rural areas allege that they have been battling with the same stench for up to 15 years. Rural and urban communities have since banded together to fight the stink and to reclaim the right to breathe clean air. On Tuesday, Thompson sent a letter to clients in which he said the company had not been told by the NPA that it was being charged, despite media reports saying so. We have every confidence that our technical and legal experts will be able to present the facts before a court of law and prove our compliance, he said in the letter. The court case is expected to start in April, with charges including contravention of the National Air Quality Act. According to the Upper Highway Air NPO, which was formed to fight the case of the communities affected by the stench, 12840 complaints related to the odour were logged with relevant authorities in February. EnviroServ this month admitted that the landfill was contributing to the malodour, but has consistently denied any responsibility for health issues and has demanded that other industries in the area be investigated for their contribution to the stink. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.