During a recent visit to Atlas Schools in Madale, a young teacher who was rehearsing with students for an upcoming event caught my eye.Dressed in a white shirt and blue pants, the teacher danced like there was no one watching and seemed to be enjoying every bit of it. His moves and the smile on his face were very captivating and there was no mistaking that he loved his job. The students too seemed to be enjoying the rehearsal.I was surprised when I learnt that his name was Reinhard Bonnke, just like the prominent German-born evangelist.This Reinhard Bonnke who is a gospel music artist from Kenya, is an entertainment teacher at Atlas. His parents named him after the international preacher because he was born when Bonnke was visiting Kenya in 1989. Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke came to Kenya for the first time in 1989 and my parents attended his crusade. After the crusade my mother went directly to the hospital for my birth and so they named me after him, says Bonnke, famously known by his stage name, Sting Wela Wela.Bonnke says the name Sting Wela Wela came to fame when he got into the gospel music ministry with his first single track debut Wela Wela. Bonnke says lovers of his style of music preferred calling him so and he officially started to use it so as to be close to their wants.The talented singer says gospel music has changed his life, from an alcohol addict to a good gospel singer. He says the music makes him feel like he is in a different world, a very special world where there is no trouble or suffering. Born in 1989 in the western part of Kenya in Rangwe, Homabay, along the shores of Lake Victoria, Bonnke developed an interest in music since he was a child attending Sunday school. I could compose, teach and sing songs in church and play the skin drums as well as dance my heart, he recalls.He was born again in 2014 and decided to put all his efforts to serve God through his voice. You know what! My early life was never a joy, I passed through hardships that only God could help. I was an alcohol addict and a big time disco crusher who could not save any coin before serving my leisure. I could crush almost four clubs in a night, double dealing was never news, he recounts.Award winning artistThat time, Bonnke was just but a hustler supplying water door to door, selling credit cards and eggs, both raw and boiled and could at times ride bodaboda. Because of hard life frustrations, being an orphan as well as peer influence, Bonnke had resorted to that kind of life because it was the only option. He thanks God all this is now history and is proud of the success that followed after he surrendered his life to God.In 2012, when Bonnke was in college, he was nominated for the best soloist male category at national schools and colleges drama competition at Lenana school in Nairobi. He won. Three years later, I also got nominated for the Xtreem Awards in 2015, under emerging artist of the year category. I was among 19 other artists from East and South Africa and won the award ceremoniously, he says beaming with pride.Those awards made him work hard knowing that there are people outside there listening to his songs. He inherited his singing talent from his late father, William Agit. My great grandfather was a traditional musician playing traditional musical instruments and singing to entertain at occasions and ceremonies. My father too used to be the church choir teacher, writer, and choir conductor. I think my parents recognised my potential and supported my increasing singing interest. Bonnke loves shows and says it s important to be organised. I love gigs and I used to organise shows in my home town in Kenya. I used to be an MC at different events and road shows. Apart from singing, Bonnke says the musical instrument he fell in love with first was the drum. I took its training to myself before getting to the drum set whose training is still underway. I still feel like I need more of its practice and training because its sooth has got no end. I make my living as a gospel singer, an all event Master of Ceremony and I also perform at church ceremonies, crusades, road shows and many others like YOM night, which is Yesu Okoa Mitaa Foundation that is a gospel hiphop foundation for the Tanzanian gospel hiphop platform. Bonnke also performs at the Tumaini kuu concert, Coca Cola marketing road shows, Jeans and T-shirt concert, an event organised by Riteous Invasion Of Truth Foundation that gives platform to young talents to showcase their talents. When it comes to Mceeing he uses swahili and English when need be or on order .Advice to upcoming artistsBonnke loves the game in Tanzania because it s the Tanzanian fans that gave him the name Wela Wela . He recently released his video JALALI which has been well received and it is currently doing rounds on media houses. I get invitations to different churches, ceremonies and events, and as we all know nothing good comes without challenges. I face challenges, like in places where people do not know me that much, it s still hard to organise gigs or perform. Some media houses are still reluctant in giving support as in airplay and the sorts, he says.Bonnke has 21 gospel tracks , three of which are on YouTube and on www.mdundo.com. He also has DVD copies of his released tracks.He advises music beginners who are nervous to believe in themselves and that they should have good quality products. Secondly they should learn to control their audience and learn their demand nature so as not to bore them up.Next and very important aspect to put in play is mastery of their content, don t forget your content before your audience, you will shame yourself terribly and live to regret it and above all put GOD first. Due to financial constraints, Bonnke could only manage a teachers training college after secondary school.Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz