On 8th this month, Tanzania joined the world to commemorate Women s Day, celebrated on 8 March every year. This year s theme was Be bold for change .Women face challenges in their career paths such as child bearing and raising, family commitments and many others. These are some of the barriers that hinder most women from getting to the top of corporate ladders.But as went this year s Women s Day theme, there are bold women out there who are fighting to ensure this changes. One such woman is Gladness Deogratias, 33, a mother of two children, who is the Head of Foreign Exchange Trading in Treasury Department at the National Microfinance Bank (NMB).When Gladness joined NMB in May 2014, she realised the need to have more women in leadership positions at the bank and came up with a strategy to make this a reality. The strategy she came up with is Women Arise Forum, a platform meant to initiate 50:50 in everything done by the management with the aim of empowering women at all levels. There is a very big gap among men and women in leadership positions in almost every industry. In the managerial levels you can feel the gap of female bosses in almost every organisation I have come across. In the meetings Gladness has been attending, most of the department heads are males. The situation was the same where she used to work back then and even in many other organisations.Gladness says lack of confidence and family backgrounds on how a girl child is prepared to deal with challenges has a lot to do with the existing gender gap at work places.Luckily, when Gladness presented the Women Arise Forum idea at NMB, the management received it positively and took it as a business opportunity. At NMB, gender parity means achieving a good balance of males and females in the workforce and so presenting the idea of having Women Arise Forum was very easy. Gender parity also means an inclusive culture that promotes diversity, which is at the heart of innovation and will ultimately improve the performance of our organisation. NMB believes this is not only a fair and right thing to do in the society, but also a business case for success, she says.To overcome the barriers that prevent women from progressing career wise, NMB designed a mentorship programme that combines women in junior positions and those in senior positions to share how they excelled to the top positions.Through the Women Arise Forum, the bank designed a number of initiatives to uplift the barriers. The initiatives include having a targeted recruitment, work and leave policies that are flexible and gender sensitive, mentorship programmes to allow women gain skills and experience as well as specific female leadership trainings that will empower them. We have also sent some of our female staff to leadership development trainings that are tailored for female leaders addressing their needs to grow to the C-suite. We have a partnership with Women s World Banking in the US of which our Managing Director is a member of the Board. We also partnered with Association of Tanzania Employers for the Female Future Programme. We also have our internal Women to Women Mentorship Programme, says Gladness.Men as equal partnersThe gender gap at work places is a result of a number of factors including having the right skills that is why NMB has developed trainings to ensure they are well equipped but also the mindset which the bank addresses through sensitisation talks by inspirational speakers both internal and external. Gladness advises that any female leader looking to grow must first understand that leadership is a journey and hence it is a continuous learning process. She must embrace change and be willing to step outside her comfort zone to expand her horizon. NMB is a very big bank with over 3,000 staff having solid network can succor in your journey you never know who will be on your path to leadership. Above all, work hard, they say hard work never goes unnoticed, advises Gladness.The mother of two believes men can take part in promoting gender parity at the work place and in our communities as they are key players in closing the gender gap. There is something called unconscious bias that exists so including them will help to bring this in the open. Increase their responsibility and input in gender mainstreaming strategy to allow for ownership and execution. Around the world men dominate decision making positions hence ensuring outcomes are gender inclusive. Men can also be positive role models through mentorship programmes, she says.She says it is extremely important that organisations take pragmatic actions towards promoting gender equality in their work place. Women in the work force are key drivers of economic progress of our countries, thus we cannot exclude this important labour force. Corporations should also consider gender inclusive leadership to promote a diverse of ideas in their management teams, says Gladness.This, she says will ultimately mean, products and services offered by these organisations will be gender sensitive hence help women and girls achieve their ambitions.Corporate matters asideGladness says her day starts at 5:00 am on weekdays, to prepare breakfast for her family. Together with her husband, they drop their children at school on their way to work. Her work at the office begins at 8:00 am, she always keep a diary with her and notes all the things she needs to do on that day.Being on the trading desk the financial market opens at 9:00am and closes at 3:00pm. It gives her ample time to reflect on what she wants to achieve on that day. Every Tuesday and Thursday she tries to use her lunch break to attend afternoon mass at St Joseph. My day ends at 5:00pm and I would jog as my husband drives given the traffic jam in Dar es salaam. He would then pick me up at StPeters in time to make dinner for my family again. I try to make sure am relevant to my family thus, once I leave work I would ensure I have completed all that has needed my attention at work and have given my employer a good share of my time. While Gladness makes dinner, her husband assists with children s homework. And if we manage to squeeze time before bed we would play board games or read books with my children. They love puzzles. Friday are movie nights or dinner dates, she adds.But how does she balance her duties as a married woman, a mother as well as a career woman? The mother of two says it is never balanced. She tries to juggle to the best of her ability. She believes God has the biggest part to play in her success. As a woman, health, family and friends are important to her. So weekends are also for time with her friends, she has a number of groups of women she is involved with who are friends from back in secondary school. We meet and share ideas as mothers and career women. I also try to have dinner dates with my husband every so often to remind ourselves back in our dating days. But as a career woman I also have to ensure I constantly upskill myself either through reading or attending relevant trainings, she says.Sharing her secret to being where she is given the existing gender gap at work places, Gladness says it is a combination of a number of things, hard working and ensuring that she work hard and produces excellent results that will leave a notable mark. Intangible skills such as good relationship with peers and management is also important. Have a plan and follow it. I remember when I returned in the country in 2009, even though I was working on a smaller bank, I always said one day I should work for a big bank like NMB and I followed through that. Today here I am. Most females in their middle management journey lose focus especially when we start families, she says.