Meet 19-year-old Optatus Simon who is a passionate learner. But while in school, he became alienated from the joy of learning.The young resident of Kyerwa, a district in Kagera region, began experiencing pains on different parts of the body but ignored it as a sign of fatigue resulting from too much games he played. When I was in form three, I began to feel as if my legs would lose balance everytime I climbed a steep slope on my way to school. I felt tired by the time I reached to school and was out of breath. I then began walking really slow, but the pain persisted, Optatus narrates to Your Health while pointing at his joints indicating where the pain is felt most. Optatus could not sleep at night. His parents couldn t understand as he was born a normal child. His father took him to a nearby municipal hospital, Nyakahanga in Kyerwa where he was examined by running an echocardiography test and was diagnosed with heart problem without detecting the exact issue. The hospital wrote him a referral for further check-up at Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) in Dar es Salaam. In April last year, it was discovered that two valves in his heart were in bad shape and needed to be replaced. He was given medication and was advised to attend regular clinics till the hospital could obtain a valve. But the wait seemed long and painful. It was one of the most painful phases and the situation to travel to and fro was not easy. I had to complete my form four and sit for my national examinations as well while attending clinics, Optatus says with a heavy tone. Causes Optatus comes from a pastoral and agricultural family. Optatus s condition is diagnosed was rheumatic heart disease (RHD) and according to Dr Surender Kuboja, a Paediatric Cardiologist at JKCI, the heart disease is a complication of rheumatic fever, which causes the heart valves to be damaged. Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that begins as a sore throat. It affects the connective tissues throughout the body, especially the heart, joints and skin. The disease is caused by a bacteria called streptococcal (strep), Dr Kuboja explains the cause of Optatus s medical condition. He adds that it initially starts as recurrent sore throat, what they medically term as strep throat that enters the body thereby making it weak and causing joint paint. Dr Kuboja said that rheumatic fever can strike people of all ages, but the most vulnerable are children between 5 and 15 years. The infection is transmitted by air to the people who are living in poor areas. Overcrowding, poor housing conditions, malnutrition and lack of access to healthcare play a major role in the persistence of this disease in different crowded areas, explains Dr Kuboja. The rheumatic heart disease (RHD) seems to be one of the most common diseases among children, but very little is known about this. Nowadays children start school at an early age. They are either conditioned to overcrowded public buses during commuting or overcrowded classes. These factors play a major role for the disease to be easily transmitted from one child to the other or from one adult to the child, adds the child specialist. Signs and symptoms The symptoms of rheumatic heart disease vary from person to person and the damage to the heart is often not readily noticeable. When symptoms appear, they may depend on the extent and location of the heart damage. Everybody is born with bacteria-fighting microorganisms but if the body immunity is low this bacteria will cause damage in your valve cells, Dr Kuboja explains the simple biology on how our bodies work. According to him when the strep bacteria attacks a person with low immunity, they get damaged and the person starts to experience pain, which can be in the vein, body or heart valve. This pain, according to other medical sources, creates a burning and thumping sensation in the chest, especially around the heart; and could be associated with shortness of breath, swollen ankles, wrists or stomach. Typical symptoms of rheumatic fever appear about two weeks after the onset of an untreated strep throat infection. Apart from the sore throat caused by the strep infection, children have a fever and feel ill. But commonly, the child will have very painful, swollen and red joints, usually a large joint like a knee, ankle, elbow or shoulder that goes away after a day or two only to be replaced by the same problem in another joint. Short-lived skin rashes may occur, but are not common. Even if the heart is affected, it is usually not severe enough to cause symptoms, although occasionally the child may be short of breath. This little-known disease 27-year-old Maria Mganga from Tanga, currently residing in Kawe also suffers from rheumatic heart disease, which she was unaware of. She thought it was a prolonged cough, which only occurred at night causing her to perspire heavily and and suffer from weakness in the joints, which would burn as if they were on fire. In an interview with Your Health, she recalls her agonising situation, I started to lose weight and suffer throat pain including weakness of the body to a point I could not walk due to lack of body support. But before Maria s admission at JKCI where she was diagnosed with rheumatic heart disease, she underwent the case of misdiagnosis, solely because the disease is little known among people and its disguised symptoms. Narrating her story, Maria said it was in 2013 when she started to feel all was not well and was taking medication such as painkillers. The pills were not helping and therefore she decided to take the bull by the horns by going for a hospital check-up. I went to a nearby hospital in Kawe and when the doctor looked at me, his first question was whether I had done an HIV screening, says Maria. She was not surprised especially as my condition had deteriorated very fast. Despite assuring the doctor that she had done a test a month ago and results were negative , the doctor asked her to do another HIV test. The results came back negative but the doctor prescribed medication to regain blood level in my body. Maria s condition worsened, her stomach began to swell. Her father-in-law decided to take her to Mwananyala Hospital. After taking different tests including x-ray, they discovered that she was suffering from e largement of the heart. I was then referred to JKCI where I was immediately admitted in a critical condition, they took some tests and it was discovered that one of my valves in the heart was in a very bad shape, she said. According to them, the blood artery was not pushing blood normally and she could not walk, let alone take one step due to the swollen stomach. The doctors removed water from her stomach and her condition improved, whereby, she was prescribed medication and given a schedule to attend clinics. I continued with the clinic but my condition changed again for the worse and I was admitted for the second time. The doctors discovered that my valve stopped working completely, said Maria. In view of that, she said that she was told by the doctors that she needed to pay at least Sh3.5 million to change the valve, but she was not in any position to pay as she could not afford. So she went home and continued with the clinic while at the same time looking for Good Samaritan to help her with the cost. Last year in December, after attending a sermon at the Lutheran church in Mbezi Beach, and narrating her predicament to them, they paid in full for her operation. Both Maria and Optatus were successfully operated last week, where Maria s heart valve was replaced and Optatus two heart valves were replaced at JKCI. Is it preventable? According to the Health Line , a health website, the most effective way to make sure that your child doesn t develop rheumatic fever and disease, is to treat their strep throat infection quickly and thoroughly. This means making sure your child completes all prescribed doses of medication, treating it with antibiotics, commonly penicillin. In addition, schedule a follow-up visit to ensure that your child is free from strep bacteria antibodies. Practicing proper hygiene methods can help prevent strep throat. These include: Covering your mouth when coughing or sneezing. Washing your hands. Avoiding contact with people who are sick. Avoiding sharing personal items with people who are sick. Avoid over-crowded buses. Schools should have limited students per classroom.