Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai has given Media24 the go-ahead to video record proceedings during the trial of alleged axe murderer Henri van Breda. Van Breda, 22, is accused of murdering his mother, father and brother in their upmarket home in the De Zalze Estate outside Stellenbosch in January 2015. His sister, Marli, who was 16 years old at the time of the attack, survived with severe brain injuries and memory loss. Van Breda turned himself over to police almost 18 months after the killings. He was released on R100 000 bail. On Monday, Judge Desai said he had given Media24 s application very careful consideration . He said the applicant would be allowed to take still photos and video 15 minutes before court every day and after the adjournment of proceedings. During court sittings, he ruled that two video cameras may be set up and record with guidelines . They may not be attended, must be stationary and on tripods so that there is as little intrusion as possible . He ordered that none of the arrangements may pertain to Marli van Breda, even if she is a spectator . Desai also ruled that no exhibits may be filmed or photographed. Van Breda s defence attorney, Pieter Botha, requested an adjournment to receive instructions from his client on their position. Senior State prosecutor Susan Galloway agreed to the adjournment and was also expected to oppose the order. Court proceedings were expected to resume at 11.30am. The criminal trial is expected to start at 2.15pm. Van Breda faces three counts of murder, one of attempted murder, as well as defeating the ends of justice. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.