Members of the Coalition Civic Against Xenophobia were unsuccessful in their efforts of delivering a memorandum at the Union Buildings on Thursday, after police refused to accept it citing that there was no one to receive the memorandum. The police explained to the organisers of the march that no one was available to receive the memorandum because their march was declared illegal. Tshwane Metro Police Department spokesperson Isaac Mahamba said the march was declined because the organisation did not meet the requirements of the security cluster. Prince Mpinda from The Democratic Republic of Congo who was also leading the march said this was a sign that the South African government does not care about foreign nationals. Foreigners are no longer safe in this country, because the South African government continues to be ignorant of what s happening, it s like the blood of foreigners and their businesses shut down it doesn t tell them anything. Mpinda said he had to send his children back to DRC even though they were born in South Africa. Its unfortunate in the land of Mandela where the whole of Africa, the whole world sees it as a better place to be, but we are being treated like this. What is more painful is the denial from the government officials. He said he s in South Africa because of the instability in his country. The South African government knows how brutally Joseph Kabila is, killing our people there. Other people have run into this country, yet again we are being treated like this, he said. The denial, is really killing us, the denial is a signal to the locals to do more looting, to do more killings. Probably when we are all killed, [President] Jacob Zuma and his government will probably acknowledge to say now we accept the xenophobia, he said. Themba Ncalo, chairperson of the organisation, admitted that they were initially denied permission but eventually the Metro police and police agreed to escort them to the Union Buildings. Its the office of the president which is refusing to come and accept the memorandum The office of the president says the metro police should have demanded a letter from us to come here, Ncalo said. In terms of the gatherings act which regulates the protest marches, we have fulfilled the act. We made the relevant application and there was round table discussion as per act. If the office of the president Zuma from his desk say they are not going to take the memorandum, it means president Zuma and the government are xenophobic. Ncalo said even though they were disappointed, they will regroup and come with another strategy to be heard. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.