From the time we re young, we re taught that using a toothbrush regularly is one of the best ways to keep our teeth and gums healthy. But which toothbrush is best?The earliest toothbrushes were actually small twigs people rubbed against their teeth to get rid of food bits and other pieces of debris. Over hundreds of years it evolved, beginning to feature bristles made from boar s hair. In the late 1930s, when toothbrushes with nylon bristles were first invented, consumers didn t have many options.Now, the story s completely different. Most stores that sell oral hygiene products have an extensive collection of different types of toothbrushes on their shelves, including manual (disposable) and powered (electric) varieties.Let s take a look at the pros and cons of the two and find out.Manual ToothbrushPros Thoroughly cleans teeth with proper brushing technique. Brushing only takes 2 minutes and you can keep your teeth very healthy. Multiple toothbrush styles, bristles, heads and colors to choose from. You have the ability to choose soft bristles if you have sensitive gums, and a smaller head if you have a smaller mouth. Easy to travel with: All you need is a toothbrush case and you re all set to go for your trip. No need to worry about batteries or charging. Inexpensive and often free whenever you make a trip to your dentist. Keep in mind that you should ditch your toothbrush after about 3 months of use.Cons More work. No timing: Manual toothbrushes require you to guess how long your brushing session will last (unless you set a two-minute timer).Electric ToothbrushPros Easy to use: With a powered toothbrush, all you need to do is place the toothbrush at a 45-degree angle and let the toothbrush do all the work. Less work for better results: Studies have shown that electric toothbrushes do a better job of cleaning your mouth and removing plaque and debris. More fun to use for children: Children like to take the easy way out on chores. If a child never brushes their teeth because they don t want to, try having them use an electric toothbrush. Built in timer. Electric toothbrushes use a built in timer that stops the toothbrush once two minutes are up; no more guessing!Cons Charging: You ll either have to charge your toothbrush or replace its batteries. Cost: Electric toothbrushes cost significantly more than a manual toothbrush. There are several types of powered toothbrushes but be prepared to pay more than you usually do. Not as easy to travel with: Traveling with an electric toothbrush can be a hassle. They are bulky and bringing a charger along doesn t help with room constraints. Easy to break: Dropping your toothbrush can be fatal. You have to be more careful whenever using an electric toothbrush.Your oral health will remain healthy (despite which type of toothbrush you use) as long as you consistently take care of your teeth.If you are on the fence of buying a powered toothbrush, talk to your dentist the next time you go for a checkup.