The 14th African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) conference held at Montecasino in Fourways, Gauteng, on Thursday reflected a sense of pride in the continent and the accomplishments achieved. The conference kicked off with ambassadors, diplomats, politicians, academics, NGOs and the media being treated to Zulu dancers and singers accompanying Ghanaian musicians, all singing in Ghanaian. The panel included former SA president Thabo Mbeki; Congolese Dean of the Diplomatic Corp Bene M Poko; Panel Chairperson Ivorian Professor Mohamoud Youssouf Khayal; former NEPAD CEO South Africa s Professor Wiseman Nkuhlu; Nigerian Professor Ibrahim Agboola Gambari; and Gambian Executive Director of Liaison with Government and Institutions in Africa Dr Abdoulie Janneh. Panel speakers discussed how APRM had been established in 2003 to put an end to the an era of conflict, civil wars, diseases and poverty wracking the African continent by establishing a mechanism to promote economic integration and sustain growth and good governance. Exchanging best practice principles, promoting justice, democracy and political transparency were also essential, according to the panel. There was consensus that the organisation was still a teenager at 14 years. However, despite going through some difficulties it had made significant progress. Mbeki, who has been involved in brokering various African conflicts and who also initiated and launched NEPAD, stated that Africans needed to evaluate themselves and that African states joining APRM, which is an part of the African Union (AU), had done so voluntarily with 37 AU members having signed up. Compulsory membership would have forced African leaders to put on a good front instead of honestly assessing the progress of their respective countries, Mbeki stated. Voluntary membership was also a mechanism for encouraging members to abide by rulings because if they failed to do so they would be reminded that they had not been forced to join the APRM. Mbeki explained that the peer reviews of individual countries worked by looking at the positive accomplishments in addition to negative developments. He added the APRM was not a substitute for African institutions and processes that didn t need to be changed, but instead a supplementary tool. The peer review mechanism has been influential on the AU with the organisation recognising the APRM as one of its success stories. Other AU member states now want to join after a vote of confidence by Africans, Gambari said. Janneh added the national consensus set by the APRM was an example to the rest of the world. What was important was ordinary Africans getting involved in the APRM at the grassroots level by following and commenting on Twitter accounts for example, the participants asserted. The participation of civil society was also crucial, such as participating in meetings held by the group at local events including town hall meetings. Looking at challenges going forward, the panel agreed that countries should share their resources with the review mechanism group and that individual presidents needed to be engaged in the peer review. There would obviously be difficulties ahead, but those could be resolved by consensus combined with past experience. Africans need to see the benefits of belonging to the APRM in that we want to make their lives better and improve the continent as a whole through cooperation, said Mbeki. The level of cooperation was evident when the former president agreed to sit down with African ambassadors to South Africa in a future meeting to discuss xenophobia in South Africa, which he claimed didn t exist, prompting an angry response from the Zambian High Commissioner Emmanuel Mwamba, who accused Mbeki of being in denial. Following the heated verbal exchange, the two men shook hands, and Mwamba later told the African News Agency (ANA) he was pleased at the positive response to his concerns.