A decision on the way forward for efforts to rescue the five-year-old boy trapped down an Ekurhuleni mine shaft has not yet been made. Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality spokesperson, Gugu Ndima, said they were yet to meet experts from the SA National Defence Force (SANDF), who had been expected to hand over a report on Wednesday. The report was supposed to indicate if the rescue operation would resume. The SANDF report was delayed because they still had to meet with the mayor. The report will, however, be out by Friday, said Ndima. Meanwhile, Nombeko Thole, the mother of five-year-old Richard Thole, who fell into a deep disused mine in the Jerusalem informal settlement near Boksburg in Ekurhuleni on February 25, said she was anxiously waiting for authorities to tell her if the rescue operation will resume. Thole said when the SANDF came to the site last week Thursday, she was relieved because she thought they would be able to bring her son back. They did not come back with him, they said they didn t have all the necessary equipment to start with the operation. I was so disappointed because I thought they would bring him back on that day, said Thole, who lives in a modest house in Jerusalem informal settlement. Bad weather and dangerous conditions saw the rescue operations suspended last week, pending a report from rescue experts from the SANDF. Whispers of discontent over the failed rescue operations have been growing louder, even though Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina requested the assistance of the SANDF. The missing boy s father, Meshack Mohlala, on Wednesday told the African News Agency (ANA) that authorities made rescue efforts more dangerous when they tried to widen the shaft, causing rock falls. It is dangerous to go in there now, because there are rock falls which are caused by them, said Mohlala. He was a very active boy and wanted to become a police officer when done with school. He normally played in the yard with his friend, but on that day they went to play on the streets. Mahlatse Chego, the mother of Richard s friend, said she had since sent her son to Limpopo. Following that incident he had nightmares and would wake up in the morning and go to look for Richard at his home where they usually spent their time playing soccer, said Chego. My son asked when are the police going to bring Richard back so they can go to school, she said. I had to send him to Limpopo, maybe he will forget about what happened while he is there, because here it is difficult. Richard was his friend and they were in the same school. African News Agency (ANA)