Ford South Africa today announced that it has expanded the safety recall for the 1,6-litre GTDi engine to include the Ford Fiesta ST, Oudtshoorn Courant reports. About 1 078 Fiesta ST models produced in South Africa between September 2012 and December 2014 are affected. It is not yet known how many of these Fiesta models are affected in the Southern Cape. Customers can continue to drive their vehicles, but should visit their Ford dealer if their vehicle exhibits a coolant leak, overheating or frequently needs added coolant. Customers should continue to check their vehicle&#8217;s&#8217; coolant levels and can refer to their owner&#8217;s manual for instructions on how to check the coolant level and what to do if it is low. The company said that in the affected vehicles, as in the similar Ford Kuga engine model, a lack of coolant circulation could cause the engine to overheat, resulting in a crack in the cylinder head. A cracked cylinder head can result in a pressurised oil leak. Oil that comes into contact with a hot engine surface increases the risk of a fire in the engine compartment. READ MORE: Ford SA CEO Jeff Nemeth recalled to the US &#8220;The safety of our customers is our top priority, and the expansion of the safety recall is being rolled out as a precautionary measure on the Fiesta ST,&#8221; said Jeff Nemeth, President and CEO, Ford Motor Company of Southern Africa. The Fiesta ST models will receive hardware and software upgrades, which include the fitment of a coolant level sensor with supporting hardware and software changes at no charge to the customer. The necessary parts are expected to be available by the fourth quarter, and customers will be informed when they should book their vehicle in for the repair. For any queries or concerns, customers can contact their Ford Dealer or Ford Customer Service on 0860 011 022 or e-mail CRC3@ford.com. On Wednesday, the company announced the appointment of Casper Kruger as managing director of Ford Motor Company Sub-Saharan Africa region, from 1 April. He will join Ford&#8217;s Southern Africa leadership team and assume the position of managing director when current president and CEO Jeff Nemeth returns to the US in July to take on a new position at Ford. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;