Gauteng Department of Infrastructure Development (GDID) is to roll out solar panels starting with 16 health facilities in the province in the current financial before the project is taken to schools the following year. This was announced by MEC for Infrastructure Development Jacob Mamabolo during an economic cluster media briefing in the Gauteng provincial legislature this week. Mamabolo said his department is hard at work to implement the rooftop Solar PV Project in which it would roll out solar panels initially to 16 health facilities in the province during the 2017/18 financial year. The project was already implemented in some government buildings. The MEC said solar energy is going to play a central role as the province is moving away from electricity with the ultimate objecting being to disconnect from the power grid. Mamabolo said in addition to the R30 billion invested in infrastructure between 2013 and 2016 a further R42 billion would be spent over the next three years on infrastructure development. &#8220;This is projected to lead to around 190 000 direct and 140 000 indirect or induced jobs for the province,&#8221;Mamabolo said. He said infrastructure development lay at the heart of the government&#8217;s programme to create sustainable jobs and re-engineer the spatial layout of a post-apartheid Gauteng. &#8220;Key to this noble and achievable task, the Gauteng department of infrastructure development has developed a new paradigm for the way it delivers social infrastructure like clinics, hospitals, schools, libraries and recreational centres,&#8221; Mamabolo said. He said land has been identified for what he called &#8220;Precinct Model of High Impact Infrastructure Development. Investigation would be done over the next few month regarding the detailed land ownership and potential land use opportunities. A highly skilled Maintenance Crack Team has been established to swiftly respond to matters relating to maintenance of health facilities in the Gauteng City Region. To this end, after identifying the need for additional staff to do maintenance, an in-house training academy for artisans is being constructed in Westhoven. The training academic would also be used to upgrade the skills of Extended Public Works Programme beneficiaries, who would be used in the infrastructure maintenance as well-equipped to compete in the job market and to start their own businesses. Meanwhile Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affair MEC Paul Mashatile announced R49 billion has been committed as investment into Mega City projects. He described a Mega City projects as those that yield no less than 15 000 units either as an existing development cluster or a new nodal development projects. The department is to organise a one-day Human Settlements Funding Summit as a platform to discuss funding mechanisms, forge partnerships and to provide an opportunity for investors. Mashatile said his department would needed R30 billion investments in order to partner to created quality human settlements in the province. &#8220;In the context of building cohesive and integrated human settlements, service and infrastructure like education, health, public transport and social amenities must be directly linked to where the people will settle,&#8221; Mashatile said. &#8211; ericn@citizen.co.za Gauteng MEC Vadi launches R87 million road upgrade project