The Blitzboks will have to show all their skill, courage and pride for the jersey if they want to trump hosts, USA, in the semifinals of the Las Vegas Sevens on Sunday night. That&#8217;s the view of Springbok Sevens coach, Neil Powell, after the Blitzboks confirmed a top four spot for the fifth time in as many tournaments by beating Australia 17-14 in their quarterfinal early Sunday morning. Also read: Business as usual for Blitzboks in Las Vegas &#8220;This will be a massive match for us as the USA will be pumped by the big crowd and their desire to win their first home tournament,&#8221; said Powell. &#8220;The USA team is packed with game breakers and with the support from the locals will be a tough opponent. We did not come here to lose though, so will have to be at our best for that one if we want to play in the final later.&#8221; The Blitzboks made it into the final four of the series for a fifth consecutive time, courtesy of a hard-fought win over the Aussies. &#8220;It was a nervous last couple of minutes, but I&#8217;m very proud of the way the guys responded when under severe pressure,&#8221; said Powell. A late try by Rosko Specman, his fourth in the tournament, edged his team into the lead and determined defence in the final minutes proved vital. &nbsp; Australia scored in the opening minute when the Blitzboks defence did not react fast enough to a quick tap penalty. To add to their woes, playmaker Justin Geduld then rolled his ankle and was helped off the field and replaced by Cecil Afrika. The South African attack stepped up and Ruhan Nel scored just before the break to close the margin to two points. They also started strongest in the second half. Siviwe Soyizwapi ripped a ball from a tackle to spark a counter-attack and was on hand to finish off the move as well. Australia struck back in a dramatic match and a converted try saw them jump back into the lead with two minutes to play. Specman then raced down the touchline to score and put his side in the lead again, with some solid defence by South Africa keeping Australia away from the try-line and into the semifinals. Earlier in the day, the Springbok Sevens maintained their winning streak in their final pool A match by defeating Wales 21-7. Chris Dry scored early in the first half before two more tries by Cecil Afrika and Siviwe Soyizwapi sealed the win. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.