Although we live in fast-paced lifestyles in cities, there are still places in the interior, which are still being discovered by the day. Going out exploring these places is a rewarding experience and a balm that soothes the soul. So was my experience this past week.I live in Arusha. It is a gorgeous city in the north of Tanzania close to many tourist wonderlands. Arusha shares unusual borders with spectacular landscapes, unspoiled countryside among many natural beauties.It brims and hums during the tourist season, and out of season it s a paradise of tranquillity,Long isolated from the rest of the city is the leafy Njiro suburb. It has now emerged as one of the most entrancing upmarket areas in which well-planned estates, supermarkets, houses and apartments, hotel facilities and entertainment joints are the face and rule of the day.The cosmopolitan suburb found in the south-west of the Arusha city offers a captivating blend of the sprawling modernity and thriving communities, from the middle and upper-class citizens to the well-off people.From the popular Njiro road that branches off past Kwa Msola nearly 200 metres away on the left, the feeling of intimate setting hit me right up to the gate where the treasure is hidden The Njiro Climax Resort. I was a first-timer here following a chat with a friend.Boasting of enviable sprawling lush gardens with well-manicured lawns surrounded by different species of plants and banana plantations, Njiro Climax Resort, arguably, is a choice for many large functions.The tranquil resort sitting on two acres consists of four separate areas in which visitors get a chance to savour their time. Thanks to its grand spacious venues the resort certainly makes an irresistible place for large crowds supported by its ample parking yard able to hold over 150 cars.The three separate gardens are surrounded by enclosures, whereas in addition, there is a private service area, used by clients who prefer total privacy. The whole walk area is filled with small paving blocks easing movement.The resort is favoured by many because of its friendly business terms in which clients who book the gardens are allowed to bring their own drinks and food or cook at the site on complimentary.It is a perfect place for pre-wedding meetings, sendoff parties weddings, office parties, team building outings, family and friends picnics or simply to relax and unwind.Hellen Stanley, the manager, told me the three venues host up to 1200 people.Clients pay per person in a consolidated figure of the appointed area s capacity.Quite a good number of popular organisations use their venues which include Vodacom, Airtel and financial institutions such as NMB, TIB and NIC among many others.This is an incredibly exciting place for families as it provides swings for children to play while their parents are watching from a safe distance. The resort s boundary is wall-fenced and fitted with CCTV cameras to help monitor clients safety and security.A stand-by generator in case of power failure is available to back up all operations. And all public areas are connected to wireless internet making visitors experience highest level of comfort as they miss nothing from their social and work needs.While the large gardens seem to hog a lot of attention, the resort also has a range of 12 exclusive rooms to choose from.Visible from the guest-rooms are the iconic mountains in Tanzania: Mt. Meru 4566m and Mt. Kilimanjaro 5895m.From the room balconies, guests can also view the stunning Arusha city panorama backdrop. To cater for wide clients needs, the resort allows guests who wish to cook their own food at no extra fee provided they shop for their own groceries.Another freebie here, according to Hellen is their complimentary drop-off and pick-up from the Eastern and Southern African Management Institute (ESAMI) located nearby. Our guests staying here who have business to do at the ESAMI qualify for this offer , said Hellen.The restaurant spreads out in an elevated land that is modelled on a sense of the African homestead with contemporary materials put into maximum use. It has a seating capacity of 60 people with six-DSTV connected flat monitors for the pleasure of diners.The menu here is comprehensive with dishes inspired by pure local flavours and tantalising textures. I was spoilt for choice as there is plenty of local food to choose from including the barbecue station.There is a variety of beef, chicken, goat and fish in the barbecue kitchen.My ultimate experience here was experienced at the famous barbecue kitchen where clients are allowed to engage the chef.Moments later my order was brought to the table. I indulged in grilled goat and my choice was a front leg. The meatiness was grand paired with a flavourful sauce which tasted like a mixture of local pepper and lemon. So yummy food!There were freshly made salads with fried bananas, popularly known locally as mzuzu. The meat and fried bananas were securely put in a foil to maintain the heat. This helps the meat not to get cold before it is eaten.E-mail: elisha.mayallah@gmail.com