Iraqi officials in Iraq s northwestern Nineveh Governate have accused the Islamic State (IS) of executing more than 500 Iraqis and dumping their bodies in a mass grave west of Mosul, where coalition forces are battling to rid the city of the militants. Iraq s pro-government Popular Mobilisation Units (PMU) said in a statement that they had found a mass grave about 15km west of Mosul city, the Kurdish news agency ARA reported on Sunday. Over 500 dead bodies have been dumped by IS terrorists into this huge mass grave. Most of the victims were prisoners in the IS-run Badoush detention centre, the PMU leadership said. Locals further reported that thousands of other people had been massacred by the militants and buried in and around Mosul city over the past three years since the group took over the city in 2014. With the advance of the US-backed forces into Mosul, we expect more of such mass graves to be discovered, said Iraqi journalist Redi Osso. Human Rights Watch (HRW) reported earlier that ISIS has executed at least 600 prisoners in the Badoush prison since the group took over Mosul in June 2014. However, HRW also recently reported that members of the PMU, known as Hashd Al Shaabi in Arabic, were abusing men, whom they assumed to be active in the IS or sympathetic to the group, who had fled Mosul as the fighting intensified. Groups within the Iraqi military are screening and detaining men fleeing Mosul in unidentified detention centres where they are cut off from contact with the outside world, HRW stated. Given these groups lack of training in screening, the irregular nature of these screenings and detentions, and the detainees lack of contact with the outside world, the detained men are at heightened risk of abuse, including arbitrary detention and enforced disappearance, said HRW. In case after case, relatives are telling us that their male family members are being stopped by PMU fighters and disappearing, said Lama Fakih, deputy Middle East director at Human Rights Watch. While we cannot know exactly what has happened to the men detained, the lack of transparency, particularly for their families as to their whereabouts, is cause for real concern. Iraqi authorities should only allow bodies with a screening mandate to screen people and ensure that anyone detained is held in a recognised detention centre accessible to independent monitors and granted their due process rights enshrined in international and Iraqi law. All detention should be based on clear domestic law, and every detainee should be brought promptly before a judge to review the legality of their detention. Iraqi law requires that authorities bring detainees before an investigative judge within 48 hours of their detention. The authorities should ensure that detainees families know where they are and publicly issue information about the number of people detained as part of the operation to retake Mosul from ISIS, added HRW. Meanwhile, the African News Agency (ANA) spoke to Amar, a source in Baghdad who asked his family name not be given for security reasons. Amar, a Sunni Iraqi married to a Shia, told ANA that there was a pervasive fear among Iraqi Sunnis who are critical of the PMU as most of the IS sympathisers are Sunni and hence have been targeted by the Shia militias. We are afraid to talk out because that means arrest and torture. The Shi ite-dominated government is not bad. But the Shia militias who make up the PMU and their supporters are the problem, he said. We keep our criticisms to ourselves. Even a famous female journalist was imprisoned not so long ago for criticising the militias. She only escaped serious abuse because of her connections and because she is well known, Amar told ANA. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.