Axed Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) chairperson Popo Molefe has broken his silence following the recent axing of the troubled parastatal&#8217;s board this week by Transport Minister Dipuo Peters. Peters&#8217; decision to axe the board was announced on Wednesday during a meeting with the transport portfolio committee and following the recent spat between the board and axed CEO Collins Letsoalo over his 350% salary hike. Following this, the committee decided to establish an inquiry into the troubled parastatal s affairs According to Huffington Post SA, Molefe said Peters had no legitimate reasons to axe the board, especially in light of the board&#8217;s efforts to investigate and root out corruption. He added that the minister&#8217;s decision was worrisome since it could result in future investigations being prejudiced. Molefe also attacked the ANC on its seeming unwillingness to root out corruption. He said the party only paid lip-service when it came to tackling corruption and was sending the country&#8217;s image to the dogs. Speaking of uncovering irregularities at the parastatal, Molefe said such efforts were often impeded by interference from law enforcement agencies as well as the targeting of whistleblowers. It was earlier reported that Molefe wrote a letter to Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza, slating his unit for its alleged failure to investigate suspect tenders worth billions of rand. In the alleged letter to Ntlemeza, dated February 13, Molefe lashed out at the Hawks for their failure to comply with their constitutional and statutory obligations to investigate these matters and thus bring them to an end. Speaking of the recent axing, Molefe said the board would fight Peters&#8217; decision, adding that the minister could not just fire the board without any reasons and that this was done in an attempt to shield Letsoalo. Molefe said he only found out of his dismissal following a meeting with the African National Congress deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte when a colleague informed him. He said while he harboured no ambition to remain on the board, if they let the matter go, it would spread to other parastatals. Molefe lamented the ongoing mess at Prasa, saying it was further eroding the ANC&#8217;s already dwindling support. Popo Molefe to seek legal recourse after axing of Prasa board For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.