Dare to take a hike on the active sodium carbonate volcano? If you are prepared to kiss your cell phone, electric shaver and hairdryer goodbye for a few days, want to experience nature in its most intoxicating state, then this adventure is for you. Go rustic!Recently, on a short visit our group of four decided to try something a little different but not very different from the norm at the Oldonyo Lengai, the mountain celebrated as holy by the Maasai.A six-hour climb at night is such an unusual experience for a city resident. Oldonyo Lengai [3,188 metres] is the only active volcano on the southern shore of Lake Natron in the Maasai land. The holy mountain consists of lava slabs, dust, and zillions of small ball bearing-shaped pieces of lava.Its impressive peak is revered by the Maasai as the sacred home of God, the mountain of God. It is believed that for many years, the Maasai communities from both Tanzania and Kenya have worshiped the mountain, believing it is a source of fortune.Whenever drought, famine or other calamities befell the community, elders conducted prayers at the foot of the mountain, seeking an end to the misfortunes. The Maasai also conduct superstitious and ritual ceremonies as a symbol of their culture at the foot of the mountain. During sacred festivals, goats are slaughtered.We drove through a lush and fertile countryside on the Great Rift Valley escarpment past the Engaruka village, after turning right before Mto-wa-Mbu, nearly 130 km from Arusha.We had covered a few kilometres before we saw the first group of young Maasai the warriors singing and jumping, which gave us a warm introduction. Our driver told us there was a traditional ceremony going on nearby.A while later, we saw cattle and wild animals sharing pastures as the Maasai looked on. There were zebras, wildebeest, grant gazelles and more.The reception at the campsite was excellent. We found the staff eagerly waiting for us and they had brought loads of firewood and had a fire going for us before we even put our bags down.Our campsite, by the mountainside, a pleasant spot complete with a gushing river, and the beautiful Lake Natron shoreline, which is a salt lake famous for its sodium bicarbonate, and the massive flamingo colonies wading in the shallows, came into full view. While at the camp, you can choose to either go watch the waterfalls or relax at the river bank.Local Maasai guides whom we had contracted for the hike told us the holy mountain is hiked after midnight. We were told midnight scaling is fixed because of the lava which is too hot during daytime.After-dinner before starting out our midnight hike, our dream of scaling the holy mountain started, with a briefing.The climb started off rising sharply from the arid plain slopes at 45 degrees angle, and slowly went up nearly most of the climb up to a height of 2,960 metres. To scale the mountain, one needs to have a head torch which is quite helpful, but at times the angle of the torch still made wrong and uncertain footing. While quite challenging in some spots, the climb was not as bad as I had thought.Our guide, wearing traditional sandals and a blanket, seemed experienced as he was going up at a steady pace to put us through our paces. The consistency of the rocks changed and it seemed every outcrop of rock would either crumble, or pull out from the ground starting mini avalanches.The top section was even steeper and we had to hike on all fours (legs and hands) in order to make headway on the treacherous rocks.We reached the lip of the caldera (summit) just as the sun rose and the live flow of lava from the magma could be easily seen. Whatever had hit us on this climb seemed to dissipate as we walked around the top of the volcano. The volcano was fascinating! None of us seemed to suffer from any undue distress from the climb.We found Oldonyo Lengai active as the foul-smelling steam poured from cracks in the crater rim. Walking across the caldera, one could hear poles thumping into the hollowness of the lava tubes below. Sulphur smelling steam rose of the many vents in the rocks and half a dozen mini volcanoes stuck-up.It was almost as hard going down as it was going up. The descent, while steep, was not intimidating in the daylight. As weary as we were, after three hours we arrived at the campsite.E-mail: elisha.mayallah@gmail.com