President Jacob Zuma s eldest son, Edward Zuma, launched a scathing attack against former president Kgalema Motlanthe and politicians who used African National Congress struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada s funeral on Wednesday to censure his father. In his open letter released on Thursday, Edward said the politicians were parasites and Motlanthe was a desperate man who had failed in his leadership roles as a former secretary-general of the ANC and head of state. Motlanthe received a standing ovation at Wednesday s funeral after he quoted late the ANC veteran s letter calling on President Zuma to step down from office. The call made by comrade Kgalema Motlanthe for president Jacob Zuma to step down is really a call from a desperate man a man who failed to unite the ANC as secretary and also failed to perform as head of state he said. He said the speakers at the funeral, who included among others, SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande and Cosatu s general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali, used their speeches to score cheap political points and to climb to power . I write this short letter to all South Africans about why they should know who these parasites [are] that use a funeral of a freedom fighter a liberator and a humble son of the soil to score cheap political points and want to use all available platforms including funerals of the departed to climb to power. All they know to do is continuously tarnish the image of our country under the pretence that they are holier than everybody. Fellow countrymen let me put it to you that these new puppets have found a playing and climbing pad in our president as any Tom Dick and Harry can now speak all nonsense as they please about our president he said. Edward said the criticism directed at his father was because he wanted to remove Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan from his Cabinet. All of this countrymen stems from the fact and truth that their boy Pravin Gordhan is rumoured to be on his way out as he is defending white monopoly capital through state institutions such as PIC GEPF and many more thus stalling service delivery to the poor of this country. Other senior ANC leaders who have felt the wrath of Edward include ANC veteran Mathews Phosa, Gordhan s deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, including former public protector Thuli Madonsela, and SA s last apartheid president FW de Klerk. ALSO READ: DA to table motion of no confidence in Zuma For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.