The Country Garden on Classic Day at Turffontein Racecourse promises to be a delightful afternoon on Saturday with not only the thrilling horse racing action lighting up the city track but also the food and entertainment capturing the imagination. It s also an excuse to dress up and turn heads. A media statement read that the acclaimed restauranteur Thom Hughes is ready to wow racegoers in the Country Garden with his culinary delights and admitted he s looking forward to once again being at Turffontein Racecourse on the weekend. &#8220;Fingers crossed the weather is good and more importantly the turnout is good, said Hughes, who is behind such Johannesburg institutions such as Perron, The Office, The Steamworks and The Griffin. He further elaborated on what people can expect. Good food done simply but well. Food that is both easy to handle, affordable yet of the highest standard. The Country Garden will be serving up some of the best food on the day. The last time Hughes catered at the racecourse he was in his food truck and the success of that endeavour meant he had little to think about when he was approached again. I decided to get involved again due to the success of the last event. The fact that it targets my exact clientele and it s the kind of event that I would go to. My family is also coming along on the day, said Hughes. If you re making your way to Turffontein Racecourse then Hughes has a recommendation as to what to try from his delicious menu. I would say the slow roast pork belly with red cabbage and apple relish served with rocket and preserved lemon aioli. The afternoon will see some of South Africa s finest thoroughbred and riding talent battle it out for top honours in a number of feature races while the sideline action will result in one lucky person walking away with R20 000. There are also cash giveaways in the money shower as well as four R5 000 vouchers throughout the day. Tickets for the Country Garden on SA Classic Day are on sale at Webtickets or available at the gate on the day. For more information call 011 681 1796 or visit www.itsarush.co.za. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.