Two alleged murderers were killed by an apparent vigilante mob in Bloemfontein on Saturday, Free State police said. A 31-year-old man was allegedly attacked and robbed by five assailants at about 6am when he was on his way home from a tavern in Caleb Motshabi, Mangaung, spokesman Brigadier Motantsi Makhele said. He died at his house after telling some members of the community that he had been attacked. The community decided to pursue the alleged suspects and they caught up with the two of them and apparently burned them to death in the same area. After killing the two, the community went for their shacks where they lived and burned them too. Three cases of murder were registered at Kopanong and Kagisanong police station for further investigation, he said. One of the three suspects that managed to flee from an angry and furious community was arrested a few hours after the incident. He will be charged with the murder of the 31-year-old Solomon Maweni. What is really worrying is the fact that the perpetrators of such heinous acts are often perceived as heroes by some members of communities when such barbaric killings take place. Police are in hot pursuit of these so-called heroes because there is nothing heroic when you burn and kill people, Makhele said. We have increased visibility in the area through the intensive deployment of public order policing (POP) and technical response team (TRT) to stabilise the area. Violence, in any form, and by any member of our society must be condemned by all law-abiding and peace-loving citizens of the country. It has no place whatsoever in a community that embraces the constitutional ethos of peace and respect for fundamental human rights, freedom, and human dignity. Free State police commissioner Lt-Gen Lebeoana Tsumane had already tasked his deputy heading the detective service in the province to personally give guidance in the investigations and arrests were anticipated soon, Makhele said. We humbly appeal to our communities to allow the police to do their work in the area and refrain from taking [the] law into their own hands, Tsumane said. African News Agency (ANA) PICS: Two rescued from car submerged in Bloemfontein canal