Vodafone on Monday announced a number of programmes aimed at supporting women, one of which is intended to entice women back to work after career breaks. A statement released by Vodacom, the South African mobile operator 65 percent owned by Vodafone, said the ReConnect programme, which seeks to bring talented women in 26 countries back into the workplace, was set to do more than just add a splash of pink to the tearoom. With a focus on women who have management experience, the programme aims to add the well-known benefits of a feminine touch to the telecommunications company s management team. Research commissioned by Vodafone shows that there are 96 million skilled women aged 30-54 on career breaks worldwide, of whom an estimated 55 million have experience at middle-manager level and above. The global initiative aims to increase the number of women in management roles, with around 10 percent of all external management hires to be recruited through the programme over the next three years. The company said the Vodafone ReConnect programme was designed to attract talented women who had been out of the workplace for several years (in most cases to raise a family) and who would like to return to work. The target market includes those who want to return on a full-time or flexible basis, many of whom are struggling to make the professional connections needed or refresh the skills required , according to the statement. The programme will operate across 26 countries with a target of 1,000 ReConnect recruits within three years. The aim is to recruit up to 500 of these women into management roles and another 500 into a range of frontline roles. The company is relying on a lot more than women s intuition about the benefits of adding all this girl power . The research, which was carried out by KPMG, gives a sense of the potential economic benefits of bringing mothers and other women who have taken a break back into the workplace. The estimates are that if all the women with experience at middle manager-level and above who are on a career break were able to secure manager-level employment (on the assumption that this did not displace other employees), the value of the additional economic activity generated would be in the region of 151 billion per year. The cumulative financial boost for those women s households is estimated to be approximately 419 billion a year. Separate research for Vodafone found that four out of five women who had experience of a career break said that more support was needed for women who wanted to return to the workplace and for working women with family and care responsibilities. Many women said they wanted the option to work flexibly (61 percent) or part time (51 percent). The ReConnect programme will include training and induction programmes to refresh and enhance skills and help women prepare for re-entry into the workplace as well as unconscious bias training for hiring managers. Burcu Erdur, a senior manager with Vodafone Turkey who took part in the pilot ReConnect programme after a three-year career break, said: I felt like my career break wiped clean all of my previous career achievements. It was as if I had never worked. It is very hard being a working mum but it is manageable with the right support. Vodafone Group Chief Executive Vittorio Colao said: Companies often struggle to recruit and retain women in management and leadership roles. Innovations such as our global maternity policy and now our new ReConnect programme can make a real difference to women who work for us today and who will work for us in the future. 