A Press Release on February 20 by the Dar es Salaam-based Serengeti Breweries Ltd (SBL; &lt;http://www.eabl.com&gt;) must ve sent economic shockwaves in certain quarters within the East African Community. [See Tanzania: Serengeti Breweries start exporting beer to Kenya: Business Times, et al; Feb. 24, 2017].Titled SBL starts exporting beer to Kenya and signed by SBL s Corporate Relations Director, John Wanyancha the Release revealed that SBL has started exporting its products to the regional market, with the first destination being Tanzania s northern neighbour, Kenya... Reportedly, the maiden consignment of SBL s Allsopps beer brand was shipped to Kenya last week thus positioning the Brewer as a major player in the regional market! Noting that Allsopps is an export-only brand produced at SBL s brewery in Mwanza, Mr Wanyanche described the development as a breakthrough for the company. This is yet another exciting milestone for our company and, indeed, our products. The fact that we ve been able to penetrate the Kenyan market demonstrates that our quality products aren t only appreciated by our local consumers, but are also equally recognized in the larger regional market. Oh... there s much more of that juicy stuff in the Wanyancha Press Release... For example: SBL pledges that it s not going to rest on its laurels after effectively invading the beer market of the largest Economy in the Region.Instead, the Corporate Relations Director states that SBL is avidly exploring the possibility of further expanding its export business to other markets in the East African Community region and also to other intraregional economic blocs to increase cross-border trade within the region! That sounds good; very good, indeed especially considering that SBL produces several other alcoholic beverages apart from Allsopps. These are Award-winning brands that include the Brewer s flagship brand Serengeti Premium Lager which has alone won at least ten internationally-accredited medals! Yet others are: Pilsner Lager ; Tusker Lager ; TuskerLite ; Kibo Gold ; Guinness Stout ; Uhuru and The Kick! I ve deliberately dwelt at relative length on the Wanyancha SBL Press Release here. The general idea s that their (SBL s, and others ) business is, indeed, our business.This is especially in the sense that in My Book of Things, anyway for SBL to ve effectively penetrated the Kenyan beer market is akin to the legendary puny David-and-Goliath combat unto the death of the giant Goliath! For all practical purposes, it was a modern-day David vanquishing Goliath on his turf... [See the Biblical First Book of Samuel, Chapter 17...]. As the writer Warner Olivier wrote: it was David (SBL) slugging it out with business goliaths (Kenyan Brewers) and vanquishing them all!All this David-in-Goliath s-den-dream-turned-true becomes clearer when you take into account the beer industry (and market, by extension) in Kenya and Tanzania...Tanzania is home to three Brewers: Tanzania Breweries Ltd Group (TBL-Group: 80 per cent of the local beer marketshare by volume); Serengeti Breweris Ltd (SBL: 15+ per cent) and the little-known Qingdao-Sino-Tanzania Breweries, a Chinese company producing even less-known King Orxy Lager and King Orxy Dark Lager brands!But, whichever way one looks at it: it seems extraordinary or even odd that Tanzania d be able to easily penetrate the Kenyan beer market. According to Deutsche Bank Market Research, Kenya is the 3rd-largest alcohol consumer in Africa (17 percent marketshare) after South Africa (18 per cent) and Nigeria (36 per cent)! For better or for worse, Tanzania (3 per cent) ranks 6th in Africa!Of course, with such a big continental marketshare, the Kenyan beer market and, indeed, South Africa s and Nigeria s should be yawning wide for beer supplies. Fair enough... But, those countries are in a much better position than Tanzania to domestically meet local demand and produce surpluses for export. Right? Right!So, Tanzania s Serengeti Breweries exporting beer to Kenya may sound like sending coal to Newcastle where coal was aplenty in those early days. Thus, penetrating such markets is like puny David venturing into Goliath s den, surmounting all odds... Kudos and cheers, SBL!