Tommorow Tanzania will join the world to commemorate the Down Syndrome Day (WDSD) with the global theme My Voice My Community, .There is limited information in Tanzania on the disease, in terms of research or the divergence of the disease.According to worlddownsyndromeday.org, Down Syndrome is explained as a chromosomal condition caused by the presence of all or part of an extra twenty-first chromosome.A simple research by Your Health reveals that, in Tanzania there is limited information on the disease. Example; Most government and private hospitals have no specific units to deal with Down Syndrome patients.Down Syndrome International (DSi) encourages their friends all over the world to choose their own activities and events on WDSD to help raise awareness of what Down syndrome is, what it means to have Down syndrome, and how people with Down syndrome play a vital role in our lives and communities.Gabriella Children s Rehabilitation Centre based in Moshi will celebrate WDSD by having friendly soccer match with Amani Centre. Music, drama and dance will be performed by differently the children.Down Syndrome is named after John Langdon Down, the British physician who described the condition in 1866. Down syndrome in a foetus can be identified through chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis during pregnancy, or in a baby at birth. Things not to say to the parent of a child with Down Syndrome:So how high-functioning will she/he be?You may not mean to hurt a parent by the above question but asking this can frustrate a parent. Instead you can ask , so, how is your kid progressing?You know it is part of her syndrome There are many characteristics associated with Down syndrome, but that doesn t mean every individual with Down syndrome has every characteristic.She will be able to work in a sheltered workshopThe term you may be looking for is supported employment. We don t need to surmise children s occupation before they even start school, let alone when this was said at a diagnosis.You know she will never get marriedYou may think that way but not necessary for you to say it.At least she ll always be happyThis is another face-palm one. People with Down syndrome experience an array of emotions just like their typical peers. Down syndrome child cries, gets cranky, gets frustrated, gets tired, gets emotional and is also happy at times just like any other normal children.How long will she live for?This is a question that no parent can answer. A parent with a child with Down Syndrome want their children to be treated like anyone else. It is called inclusion.sgregory@tz.nationmedia.com