When Lucky Houdalakis gets his stable in top form he just tends to churn out the winners. That is happening right now, and as a result Just As I Said could be tough to stop in Race 6 at the Vaal tomorrow, a MR 96 Handicap over 1200m on the Outside track. This son of Just As Well had run against some big names before he joined the Houdalakis yard. In his form lines are horses like Mogok Master, Arabian Beat and Noah From Goa but the four-year-old really hit form once he was gelded. He was out of racing for almost a year before joining Houdalakis but other than his first run back in which he finished ninth, Just As I Said has done himself proud. He finished fourth in his second start for the stable, beaten only 1.75 lengths by Ebony Knight and then notched up three successive wins. His last start was in a Pinnacle Stakes over 1160m at Turffontein where he was hopelessly out at the weights but still managed to run third, beaten just 0.80 lengths by Pivotal Pursuit. Back in handicap company he looks well in, and again has Marco van Rensburg, with whom he has built up an excellent rapport, in the irons. Amazing Strike returned from a short rest in the race won by Pivotal Pursuit and was always up with the pace before fading a little late in the race to finish fifth, beaten just 2.30 lengths. He was bumped at the start so that was a decent effort. Alec Laird s charge was ridden by a 4kg claiming apprentice so he comes into the race badly handicapped with Just As I said as he finished 1.50 lengths behind the Houdalakis runner and is now 5kg worse off. However, he will have the services of Anthony Delpech and his guile and experience could more than make up for the weight disadvantage. Forest Fox undoubtedly has the form to win this event. He was a 2.20-length third behind New Predator in his last start and a run earlier finished a 0.60-length second to Kangaroo Jack. The distance is the concern because in three races over 1200m Paul Peter s charge has only managed to run third on two occasions and fourth on the other. JP van der Merwe takes the ride. Another to consider is Miracle Bureau who has been fancied on a number of occasions and could just pop up when least expected.