I have been reading several books and articles and even then, I still cannot comprehend the gains of fighting over a dead man s property, but that was not until I was affected.Fighting over the deceased s property or burial process is not something new in this part of the world.In fact, it was so common that the world was forced to come up with ways how to address it and a Will was the result.Do you have one? If you do not please write one because nobody can tell when that time comes and what shall happen after you are gone.To stop some misty people from meddling with how I should be laid to rest; I have at times thought of donating my body to a scientific research foundation.Seriously, I hate the idea of my flesh and bones being wasted down in a hole with a ton of sand over me. What a waste! Similarly the idea of being burnt to ashes does not appeal to me either.Well, there are is nothing to fuss about that, everyone should be buried as they wished when they were alive.Equally, the property they leave should go to those they wished for. That is why we all need a Will.As an African, I guess we have all heard of stories of cultural practices that oppress widows and their children as soon as their hubbies die.Whereas in some tribes the widow is forced to be inherited by their late husband s relatives, others kick out the widow soon after the funeral.Usually in these cases she is the witch and she has to go. The late husband family members then go ahead to divide everything from the dead man s family including his children among themselves.Yet others let the widow remain as long as she accepts to stay single. If she wished to remarry then she would have to surrender all possessions to her late husband s family.Those were old traditions of which some are dying out slowly but some still persist as new ones emerge. While old traditions usually discriminated against widows/women, current ones seem to affect both widows and widower.A few weeks ago I lost a sister-in-law after a long illness; she had been married to my brother for over 20 years.Clan members, relatives and friends had all gathered for the funeral at the brother s home the next day.In the middle of the night I was woken by a sound of a man wailing around the house. It happened to my brother s father-in-law.At first I thought the old man was mourning out of grief.Then I heard him sob, If it was not for my daughter decision to marry this stupid man, she would still be alive today. Oh God I cannot share her funeral with this man. Then he added in a wild shriek, I told her many times to leave but she wouldn t listen to me. Give me her body I ll bury her myself. I cannot let you kill her and bury her too. She did not leave because she knew you were giving her foolish advice and she loved her husband. Now shut up! One of my sisters confronted the old man. You are the one to shut up. How dare you insult our father ? a female relative of the old man charged.In a matter of seconds, the two women were on one another s necks like hungry beasts. They went down in a bout of kicks, punches and bites.Whatever followed was complete confusion as no side was willing to let go!