More was expected from the Paul Lafferty-trained Unbelievable Chad and he has joined the last chance list but should run a big race in Race 4, a MR 74 Handicap over 1600m at Scottsville on Wednesday. With just the one win to his name in 12 starts there is not much the Toreador gelding can do but he might have reached his low-point when dropped to a 74 after being as high as a 95 just a year ago. His runner-up berth behind What A Poet in his latest start suggested that Unbelievable Chad will be competitive off this mark and this course and distance will suit. Being slow away has cost the four-year-old a couple of times in the past so jockey Brandon Lerena will need to be on his toes but he was aboard Unbelievable Chad last time out so he may know how to get the best out of him. His biggest threat is likely to come from Air Chief Marshall. This Anthony Delpech ridden five-year-old from the Candace Bass-Robinson yard has done really well since moving to KwaZulu-Natal and was not disgraced when fourth over this course and distance last month. The Andre Nel yard has been doing particularly well in the Western Cape and the string in KwaZulu- Natal has not been doing too badly either. Silver Rose has won twice in just eight starts and clearly has more to come. This Silvano gelding deserves a winning turn after two runner-up berths in his last two starts and Race 5, a Middle Stakes over 1950m could be his but it will be tough as there are some lively dangers. Mr O Neill and Captain At Sea have the ability to run well. The two best bets on this card, however, appear to be High Altar in Race 3 and Pop Star in Race 8. Divan Neethling has not been give too many opportunities recently but the Duncan Howells yard gave him the ride on High Altar on debut and she turned out to be a very unlucky loser. This King s Chapel filly was beaten 0,50 lengths and inexperience cost her dearly. Pop Star proved competitive off a mark of 56 last time and in a modest field in Race 8 should run a big race. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.