South Africa urgently requires a rural safety policing strategy and the re-establishment of rural safety units to combat the increasing farm attacks 30 attacks in February alone, the Democratic Alliance said on Saturday. The DA is shocked at the news of yet another brutal farm attack which has traumatised the community of Westonaria, DA Gauteng MPL Ina Cilliers said. After gaining entry to the Kalbasfontein farm between 10 and 12 last night [Friday] two attackers proceeded to torture Nicci Simpson with an electric drill and stab her multiple times, leaving the farmhouse covered in blood, she said. Simpson had been hospitalised with severe injuries and was deeply scarred by the attack. The attackers fled with a firearm, vehicle, cellphone, and the contents of a safe. South Africa urgently requires a rural safety policing strategy for the province as well as the re-establishment of rural safety units to combat the wave of farm attacks which have spiked this year with 30 attacks in February alone. As early as 2014, the Human Rights Commission, in their report on the safety and security challenges in farming communities, recommended that government address the violence in farming communities in a comprehensive manner which includes more visible policing and specialised community policing forums, Cilliers said. These attacks had far-reaching implications for South Africa s food security and the well-being of farming communities. In a call to action, I will be joining the farming community for an emergency meeting with police and relevant stakeholders next week. The DA extends its condolences to Ms Simpson s family, as well as the wider community of Westonaria. The DA will not rest until our farmers are protected, Cilliers said. Earlier, ER24 spokesman Russel Meiring said a 64-year-old woman was in a critical condition following an attack on her farm on the Kalbasfontein Road between Carletonville and the Vaal in Gauteng on Friday night. When ER24 paramedics arrived on the scene they found that local authorities, along with local farmers and the community policing forum (CPF), were already in attendance, he said. Paramedics were led into the residence past the bodies of three dogs that had been apparently shot. Once in the home, paramedics found the woman lying in a small pool of blood. Upon assessment paramedics found that the woman had sustained a serious head injury as well as serious lacerations to both her wrists. Paramedics also found numerous penetration wounds to both of the patient s feet. Paramedics treated the woman and provided her with several advanced life support interventions. Once treated the woman was rushed to Mediclinic Vereeniging for urgent treatment, Meiring said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.