Allocating more funds for post-school education would require either a re-prioritisation of funds away from other programmes or an increase in tax revenues, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Friday. Gordhan made his submissions to the community investigating the feasibility of free higher education. The commission was set up after students went on prolonged #FeesMustFall protests last year. Government is applying it s mind constantly to see where we can find additional funding to support the poor students and the so-called missing middle, Gordhan said. There are lots of demands in government from all sections of society. The question is how do you meet all this demands, which ones do you priorities and if you emphasis one, whom are you excluding and what will that give rise to. What we want ideally is a sustainable environment where we meet as many of the require as possible including a better focus on higher education and training. He said government was ready to engage with education stakeholders and adapt financing arrangements in future years. Given the magnitude of student funding requirements, it is imperative that we develop a clear road map towards a better higher education and training system, he said. It must clearly indicate how society will achieve access, opportunity, financing and support for students in the university and further education sectors. He said more announcements would be made in the coming weeks both from government and outside. Government is part of a process at an administrative level and also other stakeholders in society to get the maximum amount of engagement around this issue, Gordhan said. We don t have the info that the commission has. They will provide us with what they have. A total of 615,000 university students will receive Nsfas loans and bursaries over the next three years. Transfers to Nsfas is expected to rise from R11.4 billion in 2016/17 to R13.9 billion in 2019/20. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.