&nbsp; Traffic on Grayston Drive in Sandton was hampered on Wednesday afternoon as a crime scene unfolded, reports the Sandton Chronicle. Captain Molefe Mogodi from Bramley Police Station said police received information about a hijacking and went on the lookout for the vehicle. He said, Four suspects, driving from the Randburg area in a hijacked grey Volkswagen Golf vehicle, were followed by police and along the way, the suspects started shooting at police and police shot back. The suspects then drove onto oncoming traffic where they were involved in a collision with two other vehicles on Grayston Drive in Sandton. All four suspects were arrested shortly afterwards, he said. Mogodi added that three of the suspects were injured in the collision and the driver and passenger of another vehicle were slightly injured and were treated at the scene by paramedics. A firearm and ammunition were recovered from the scene. Police were investigating the case. Caxton News Service March 1, 7.14pm: Traffic on Grayston Drive in Sandton was hampered on Wednesday afternoon as a crime scene unfolded. It is believed that a vehicle involved was hijacked in Fourways. City of Johannesburg MMC for Public Safety Michael Sun tweeted that the suspects were pursued by police and Johannesburg Metro police when they drove into oncoming traffic on Grayston Drive and crashed into two cars. He also tweeted that four suspects were arrested and advised motorists to avoid the area. Hijckrs pursued by SAPS&amp;JMPD, suspects drove into oncoming traffic at Grayston Dr &amp; crashed into 2 cars. 4 suspects arrested, pls avoid area pic.twitter.com/WiGWPOb8kY &mdash; Michael Sun (@MichaelSun168) March 1, 2017 There were also reports that shooting had ensued, and Emer-G-Med tweeted, &#8220;One patient will be airlifted from the Grayston shooting incident.&#8221; One patient will be airlifted from the Grayston Shooting incident. @EWNTraffic @IamAlexSweet &mdash; EMER-G-MED (@EMER_G_MED) March 1, 2017 ER24 s Werner Vermaak also said paramedics attended the scene. Police were also busy with investigations. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;