Aimed at honouring the efforts and victories of women who light the way, trailblazing women from all spheres of life gathered to switch on their headlights in celebration of women s strength and accomplishments this past Wednesday, 22nd March 2017, at the launch of the all new Hyundai Creta. The evening of inspiration and empowerment, which took place at the befitting Constitution Hill s Women s Jail, beamed with a guest list that featured some of the country s brightest and talented ladies! In addition to its unforgettable mix of SUV stylings, the launch of the all new Creta honoured the fascinating stories of women who, each in their own ways, tackle inequity and advocate change throughout the turbulent twentieth century. Hosted by seasoned broadcaster, Masechaba Ndlovu; the line-up kicked off with celebrated local poet Lebo Mashile bringing the TVC to life; followed by a memorable keynote address by businesswomen Rapelang Rabana and culminating in a beautiful ode to women by the incomparable Thandiswa Mazwai and her all woman and a thumping, celebratory set by the talented DJ Zinhle. As we celebrate and honour our heroines here tonight, let us not forget their sacrifices nor abandon their courage in our achievement. This is an important platform that not only lights the way for a new generation of women but it also brings us together to share experiences, exchange ideas and insight and ultimately empower each other, said performance poet Lebo Mashile. Apart from the amazing line-up, guests were spoiled to a festive-yet-relaxed cocktail party with specially crafted, crowd-pleasing bites as they mingled and mingled some more while sipping on sparkling drinks. It really was an exciting sight to see women coming out in their numbers to celebrate their contribution to society with Hyundai Creta. As a brand, we felt the need to connect with the audience here, Hyundai South Africa draws so much from this building, concluded Sanelisiwe Mupaya, Hyundai South Africa Senior Brand Manager. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.