Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday, signalled that government would if need be ask the courts for leeway to ink a deal to ensure welfare grants are paid in coming months but flagged ethical problems with the companies on which the country is being forced to rely. As Gordhan briefed Parliament s standing committee on public accounts (Scopa), it became clear that a ministerial task team has usurped Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini s grip on grant payments and contract negotiations with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS). He said the committee has met thrice since its establishment last week and on Monday handed National Treasury a formal request for a deviation from standard public finance rules. Procurement officials were considering it, Gordhan said, and if they agreed, talks with CPS would start afresh. A deal thrashed out in secret over three days of talks earlier this month, would then have to be renegotiated from scratch. Dlamini had entered into those negotiations despite not having National Treasury s agreement. We want to as soon as possible remove the sense of uncertainty and crisis and give the assurance to the 17 million beneficiaries of the social grant system that they will receive their social grants on the first of April, Gordhan said. Our objective is to ensure that our higher duty to the South African public is executed in the right kind of way, as far as possible within the current framework of the law and where that framework might be constraining we then we must get the courts to agree with us that as a so-called interim or temporary measure certain things are done to ensure that they payment happens. He added: So a combination of the political system and the court system, I think, within next five six days, will give us absolute clarity about the payment. Hours after he spoke, opposition MPs called for Dlamini s head in a National Assembly debate on the grant debacle. The minister lashed out at prophets of doom who warned of a crisis, but her critics said the issue was not simply whether grants would be paid but her readiness to put at risk the poor to cling to a compromised deal with CPS. Earlier, Gordhan said a post mortem of how the crisis developed could wait, along with the apportioning of political blame. He stressed that once a mandate for fresh talks was given, negotiators should seek to limit a new contract with CPS to the shortest possible time and consider all alternative payment systems, including using banks and the Post Office. Both those options were bluntly ruled out by Dlamini when she appeared before the committee last week. The minister accused the Post Office of trying to shoulder in on talks with CPS, and banks of withholding hundreds of millions of rands in interest from her department. Gordhan and his colleagues sharply contradicted her on both counts. The minister urged Scopa to meet with Post Office CEO Mark Barnes, saying: It would be interesting for you to actually do so and hear what they could deliver in next month s time. Treasury officials said a dispute with a commercial bank about interest involved an amount negligible compared to the R500 million claimed. However, Gordhan noted that National Treasury became aware on Monday that Grindrod Bank, which owns teller machines and distributes cards used by millions of grant beneficiaries, might be earning interest off the grant budget of R11 billion as it transits through its account every month. We are merely asking the question if money is sitting in an account for five days, it should be accruing interest. If it is where that does that interest go? We need to establish that fact. The director general of finance, Lungisa Fuzile, said an investigation was already under way. Fuzile was dismissive of CPS s reported demand that its fee of R16.44 per grant should increase to R22 to keep pace with inflation. I think these people are confusing sums with averages. I have never seen a CPI forecast to that effect. Gordhan warned that CPS did not have the right to share or sell the details of millions of grant beneficiaries and urged the company s shareholders to rethink their relationship with the Net1 subsidiary, especially given the offence caused by public statements by CEO Serge Belamant. I would certainly send a message to the shareholders in Net 1/CPS that the shareholders should ask some tough questions about the public utterances of the CEO and some of the gross statements made and it is your perception that they appear to be extremely arrogant and disrespectful to a government of which they are making R2.6 billion. Is that what you want to be associated with? Of CPS s apparent insistence that the details of any new deal with Sassa would only be made public 20 days after signing, the minister quipped: That s put that in the strange box and leave it there until we get those answers. This condition emerged on Monday as Sassa submitted court documents in response to a demand by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng that it explain how it failed to prepare itself to take over grant payment from April and when officials became aware of the problem. Sassa angered Mogoeng by filing seven hours late, prompting him to demand an explanation by 3pm on Tuesday. Again, they missed this deadline. The court documents paint a picture of an agency in disarray and conflict with the department. It concedes that Dlamini was informed only in October last year that Sassa would not be able to honour and undertaking to the court to take over grant payment from the end of this month, though it became apparent to officials in early 2016. The submission also reveals that Net 1 in March last year urged Sassa to sign a contract with CPS for at least another year. Treasury considering allowing fresh talks with CPS Gordhan African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;