With just days remaining to the crowning of South Africa s next ambassador in Sun City on Sunday, what better way to know the top 12 finalists than seeing them sweat it out one last time, all in the name of fitness. The dozen lucky ladies will battle it out for a chance of becoming the face of this beautiful country, and it is important that the finalist and the reigning Miss South Africa start a fitness routine which they can use to combat the daily stresses coming with the newly bestowed title. SA life-cover insurance and medical aid company Discovery recently held a wellness day with the 12 finalists for the launch of the new vitality fitness lifestyle team kits at the Sun International Maslow Hotel in Sandton. The day was filled with the young hopefuls who share a common sense of pride for their country, as well as take care of their bodies by living healthy lifestyles. However, preparing for a competition like the Miss SA pageant can be challenging on both the body and mind, which only emphasises the importance of a regular fitness routine. The women took part in various activities such as attending a yoga class, which skilled them in breathing technique, as well as core development posture for those times when walking into a gym can be challenging. The yoga positions will ensure that they stay fit and calm. After the drilling yoga session they headed out to the Discovery Vitality HealthyFood studio where the chefs from Prue Leith Chefs Academy taught them how to better balance their diets to their busy schedules while in the race and the winner takes on the role of Miss South Africa. Here are the thoughts of some of the contestants: For 25-year-old medical student Ade van Heerden from the Western Cape, who won Proteas colours in rhythmic gymnastics at the tender age of 13 and went on to receive a gold medal at the All-Africa Championships, her favourite healthy snacks to have in emergencies or taking it easy with friends, are carrots and celery sticks. I always have a healthy bite with me when I m on call at the hospital. A carrot or celery sticks with some hummus is an easy go-to for me at 3am. Boipelo Mabe is a 23-year-old full-time masters student, model and news reader on Soweto TV. From Alexandra in Johannesburg she has nine years classical ballet training. Mabe focuses most of her training on strength training such as functional fitness, which allows her to tone her body and keep it lean, yet strong and defined. My body fat percentage is low so to avoid a skinny look, I work on toning and building muscle to give me a healthy look, she said. Nicole van Niekerk, a 26-year-old from Moregloed in Pretoria, is a children s party events planner, au-pair and model, who lives her life as take care of your body and it will take care of you . Her dietary plan is of a vegetarian lifestyle with her favourite meal being pasta mixed with an assortment of vegetables. Construction company owner and part time model Iman Mkwanazi, 26, hails from from Lenasia, Johannesburg. Her interests are business, science and fashion. With more than 30 000 followers on social media, this businesswoman is set to take the world by storm. Mkwanazi has set her sights on running a marathon, and/or climbing one of the world s highest mountains. With the eyes of the country and hopefully the world on them, the 12 have entered a competition where looking the part is just as important as playing a vital role in their communities proving the combination of both beauty and brains can produce a world of opportunity. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.