A former Democratic Alliance (DA) activist accused of defaming Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip limped on crutches as she made her way to the Port Elizabeth Magistrates Court on Wednesday. Nontuthuzelo Jack, 47, is facing a charge of criminal defamation. She stands accused of defaming Trollip by claiming he had offered her a bribe to dig up dirt on DA provincial chairwoman Veliswa Mvenya when the party was campaigning for the 2016 municipal elections. Jack had previously provided the court with a medical note that indicated that she was suffering from a fractured leg and was unable to attend court proceedings. On Monday, Jack battled to stand in the dock with her right leg in a cast. She is being represented by Legal Aid, and the matter was postponed to give Jack time to recover and consult with her lawyer. According to the charge sheet, Jack is facing a charge of criminal defamation for falsely accusing Trollip of having offered her money in exchange for working in his faction, digging up dirt on Mvenya and adding her name to the DA s candidate list for the 2016 municipal elections. Jack made the claims to a newspaper, and they were published last year in the run up to the 2016 municipal elections. The alleged offence was committed at a time when the party was campaigning and identifying its candidates for party and public positions. The charge sheet states that both Jack and Trollip aspired to hold such positions. The accused, whether to improve her own chances for selection, or whether to diminish Trollip s, proceeded to repeatedly publish, or caused to be published, false and defamatory allegations of Trollip having attempted to bribe her with cash in turn for undue favours. According to court documents, Jack also deposed an affidavit containing false accusations and forwarded it to DA federal executive chairman MP James Selfe. Selfe is responsible for investigating the party s legal affairs and disputes between members. The case was postponed until April 5.