North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo decided on last minute to withdraw his application to stop the North West Business Forum (NWBF) from calling him corrupt. The matter was supposed to be heard on Tuesday at the North Gauteng High Court. In the court papers, Mahumapelo demanded that his detractors refrain from accusing him of corruption and also asked them to stop the distribution of a CD on which he is being labelled as corrupt. According to his legal representative, the slanderous CD has been distributed on radio and through WhatsApp and social media. Last month his attorney severed the letter of demand to NWBF chairperson Fana Moraka, secretary Sello Mogodiri, treasurer Oupa Mphomane and former Ngaka Modiri Municipality mayor Themba Gwabeni. Mahumapelo had also intended to challenge an innuendo by the business forum that he might be implicated in the brutal murder of former NWBF deputy chairperson Wandile Bozwana in October 2015. The premier had given the NWBF an ultimate, to write unconditional letters of apology or face the consequences. However, the quartet were unrepentant and ordered him to pursue court action. In court papers available to ANA, the NWBF attorneys had initially refused that the premier s matter be struck of the court roll. Attempts to get the premier s reasons as to why he decided to withdraw his application were futile. His spokesperson asked for questions to be sent via SMS and he failed to respond. NWBF secretary Mogodiri said Mahumapelo knew that he did not have a strong case hence he decided to withdraw his application. There is no way he was going to court and tell them that he is corrupt. He recognized that the allegations that we were defaming his name were wrong and that we never had an intention to defame his name. Mogodiri said another issue is that Mahumapelo approached the courts as a citizen but not as a premier, because the issues they had raised were about his alleged corruption. We raised issues about him as a premier, our assumption is that he is a full time premier but if he s part time, then we shod get a full time premiere. We want a full time premiere who will be subject to scrutiny, who will join us to fight corruption. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.