Students from Heaven of Peace Academy and Canossa High School who came together in the stage production of Mbogeni Ngema s world famous musical play, Sarafina, adaptation of the famous movie bearing the same name, about Apartheid in South Africa.Both the songs and drama based on the work done by Mbongeni Ngema, a South African writer, lyricist, composer, director and theatre producer.The group portrayed as school activists involved in the Soweto Riots, in opposition to apartheid. The play showed how things got out of control when policemen shot several pupils at the school.Despite all the entertainment that was brought by the play but there was so much that was learnt out of the play both from the students themselves and even the audience.The play laid the historic and symbolic meaning of Sarafina to past, current and future generations of Africans and other peoples striving to liberate themselves from all forms of oppression throughout the world and therefore students discovered and developed their own creative talents and opening up possibilities for other forms of creative expression.Felister Fred, a form five students at Canosa High School says the show was so nice, taking them weeks to do the preparation and she is happy that their hard work has paid off considering the fact that this was their first time doing a stage play. We don t have a permanent music club but now it s there for good after we manage to do the show today. I really like to appreciate and thank everyone who has been supporting us especially the audience who cheered us so much and even students from HOPAC who were very friendly and cooperative.Jacqueline Muro who is also a form five student at Canosa High school says the show has also been a great experience to her. The show was prepared to the maximum even though we didn t have much time considering the fact that it was our first time. We sung and acted very well and the audience was awesome and one thing that I have leant out of all this is to use the talents that God has given us because I have see how our fellow students have used their talents to initiate the best performance. She says schools should give a room for students to showcase their talents through various school activities such as singing, acting and even playing.On her part, the drama teacher at Heaven of Peace Academy Grace Nakaka says the drama was successful because throughout the rehearsal they pushed students to be emotional and they managed to bring it out on stage. They were no longer themselves, they brought out the characters really well and in a very professional way. I think its high time that we invest more in arts because art is very important all over the world in such a way that it makes children blossom especially for children who dont excel in other co- subjects,the arts makes them really florish and gives them voice, says Grace. Even for students who are good in academics, who get straight A s through arts they can be able to voice what they feel inside and also realise other talents they have. I speak for the arts and so we should have a routine at schools where children can participate, she says.Parents should not discourage their children to use the talents they have and force their children to concentrate only in their students but they need to help them learn how to balance the two.