Dar es Salaam. Tanzania s stock market is waiting for the mining companies to start offloading shares and subsequently list on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE).Two pieces of legislation of 2010 made it mandatory for mining and telecommunications companies to list on the DSE but regulations delayed the move.The Mining Act of 2010 required the firms to list but the regulations were released in 2016 wanting the mining companies to go public in two years.However, on February 24, 2017, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals published the amended Mining Regulations 2017, which state that all mining companies with special mining licences (SML) must go public by August 23, 2017.The mining companies with SML are required to float 30 per cent of their issued and paid up share capital at the DSE to allow the wider Tanzanian population to participate in the mineral resources projects.For now, Acacia Mining is the only listed firm from the sector.The Electronic and Postal Communications Act (Epoca) of 2010 also wanted the telco operators to list but last June the parliament passed the Finance Act 2016 which stipulates that all Tanzania-based telecommunications companies should list 25 per cent of their authorised share capital on the DSE through initial public offering (IPO) within six months from July 1.Tanzania is said to have 89 telecom companies but so far, only four of them have submitted applications, according to Capital Markets and Securities Authority (CMSA) spokesman Charles Shirima.These include Vodacom, Tigo, Airtel and Maxcom Africa. Vodacom s IPO was approved by the CMSA last month to sell 560 million shares to the public at Sh850 per share.The offer which seeks to raise Sh476 billion runs from March 9 to April 19, 2017, according to the company s prospectus which was made public last week. It is the biggest IPO so far in the country. Dar bourse outlookOnce the telcos and mining companies list, they are expected to boost the performance of the stock exchange as well as its contribution to the economy.DSE has 25 listed companies with a market capitalisation of about Sh20 trillion including the firms which crossed from other bourses. Six firms cross-listed from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) while Acacia Mining did so from the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The outlook for capital markets is bright and now we are waiting for the mining join the market. Both telecoms and mining firms will boost the market and add some trillions to the market capitalisation, says DSE chief executive officer Moremi Marwa without projecting any amount.DSE had a target of having market capitalization worth 50 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2017 but this could not be reached due to various reasons.The major reason, according to Mr Marwa, was the rebasing of the Tanzania economy in 2014 which saw the GDP expanding almost a third.The country s GDP for 2013 stood at Sh70 trillion, up from a previous estimate of Sh53 trillion after revising the base year for the calculation to 2007 from 2001.The pace of listing new companies on the bourse has also been slow. Other factors include the economic slowdown, currency fluctuations, geo-political conditions and global factors that affected almost all stock markets.However, Mr Marwa is confident that things will change going forward. Looking at the five-year development plan which requires Sh107 trillion for implementation, we hope it will involve public and the private sector and both may use the DSE to raise capital. The government has also wants its institutions to stand alone without dependence on the government budget. These institutions may also use the DSE for capital expansion. So, the future of the capital market is bright, he says.Experts see the increased pace of listing companies on the stock exchange as the right move towards economic empowerment among Tanzanians.However, they are still concerned by little literacy about the financial and capital markets in Tanzania. The increased listing of firms on the DSE is a good step for Tanzanians to own their economy. It s also an opportunity for people like retirees whom majority cannot successfully do business to invest through IPOs and fund managers, says economics Prof Samuel Wangwe. However, much is needed to be done to make Tanzanians aware of this potential investment opportunity, he says.It s estimated that only 500,000 Tanzanians participate on the stock markets as the country population stands above 50 million.Zan Securities Ltd chief executive officer Raphael Masumbuko is optimistic that the Vodacom IPO will increase awareness as the company is known almost all over the country. Vodacom is the market leader with 31 per cent share (12.4 million subscribers). This will stimulate awareness and participation to the stock market, says Mr Masumbuko. We are now waiting for the mining companies to start their listing process as the deadline is announced. That should be followed by different sectors like construction, transport and logistics and of course more manufacturing firms, he adds.New products coming to DSEApart from listing equities, DSE also plans other products to deepen the role of the capital markets in financing social and economic development.Commodity Exchange market which will allow trading of the agricultural produces like rice, sesame, cashew nuts and sunflower is expected to start in May this year. Mr Shirima says the timing was arranged to match with sesame harvesting season and it will be the starting produce.The Commodity Exchange was supposed to start since last year but it was delayed by financial challenges. The World Bank which supported its establishment already released the funding, according to Mr Shirima.CMSA is also still working on the arrangement for municipal and infrastructure bonds.However, the current arrangements allow the municipals to issue bonds through special purpose vehicles. We are on the right truck to starting these new products as we work hard to make the bourse more vibrant, says Mr Shirima.