An 18-year-old man was sentenced to 45 years&#8217; direct imprisonment for the murder of three homeless men by the Virginia Regional Court, Free State police said on Tuesday. According to police, Mokete Samuel Fane was sentenced on Thursday, March 23, after he was found guilty of murdering three homeless men on the weekend of March 6, 2016. Fane was given 15 years for each of the murders. The lifeless bodies of all three homeless men were found dead at different locations in Virginia central on the weekend of March 6, 2016. The first victim was found lying in a pool of blood, half-naked and his shoes lying next to him, outside the Virginia Post Office on Sunday morning, at about 6.30am by community members, police spokesperson Sergeant Mamello Mokhuoane said. Virginia Police and Emergency Services were summoned to the scene, and the man was certified dead. The deceased was an African male believed to be between the ages of 25 to 35. According to Mokhuoane, the second victim was a white male who might have been between the ages of 30 to 35. He was found outside First National Bank and was also certified dead at the scene. Next to him was a huge rock with blood stains. The words JESUS and a sign of a cross were written in blood. The third victim was found outside Dunlop Tyres at Virginia on Monday, March 7, 2016, at about 8am. He was found lying on the ground with broken teeth and bleeding from the mouth. Next to him was a huge rock with blood stains. Virginia police and Emergency Services were summoned to the scene. The unknown man was rushed to one of the hospitals in Welkom for medical attention and was later transferred to a hospital in Bloemfontein, where he was later pronounced dead, Mokhuoane said. An 18-year old homeless man Mokete Samuel Fane was arrested on March 9, 2016. He was charged for the two murders and the attempted murder. He appeared at the Virginia Magistrate Court on March 10, 2016. The attempted murder was later changed to murder, Mokhuoane concluded. African News Agency Court hears OR Tambo airport heist accused rakes in R400k a month For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.