The flamboyant and mercurial former owner of equine superstar Abashiri, Adriaan van Vuuren, who was also accused of allegedly defrauding Telkom of half a billion Rand, took his life on Thursday. This was confirmed to The Citizen by his attorney Daniel Witz. We had consulted extensively and prepared documentation for a pending bail application, said Witz. Mr van Vuuren had voluntarily handed us his passport which was handed to the investigating officer on Mr van Vuuren s instructions. We were in the process of attending to the necessary arrangements in terms of which Mr van Vuuren would comply with the investigation and the South African Police Services, Witz said. At this time our thoughts are with Mr van Vuuren s family and especially his minor children. The Hawks allege between 2007 and 2016 Van Vuuren fraudulently created invoices to pay a supplier for IT services required by Telkom subsidiary Trudon of R500 million. READ MORE: Abashiri&#8217;s former owner in court for alleged R5m fraud Trudon transferred funds into Bites Bee Holding and The Corporate Choice s account owned by his accomplice, Sonja Joubert, who also benefited from the alleged fraud, said Hawks spokesperson Captain Ndivhuwo Mulamu. It is alleged that Van Vuuren checked in at Centurion Lake Hotel in Pretoria last night for a night stay only and was supposed to have checked out at 10am this morning, Mulamu said on Thursday. His body was discovered at noon by hotel staff members who wanted to clean the room. It is suspected he suffocated himself with gas inside the hotel room. Less than two weeks ago, Hawks Serious Commercial Crime Investigation launched a manhunt for Joubert, who may have fled to New Zealand. Van Vuuren and his wife Rika s wedding and equestrian venue was liquidated earlier this month because they could not afford to pay their staff and feed more than 20 horses. Located near Cullinan in Gauteng, the Misty Weddings and Equestrian venue was placed under business rescue, however an urgent liquidation order was obtained from the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria as the business rescue practitioners said was in severe and dire financial straits . READ MORE: Ex-Abashiri racehorse owner&#8217;s business liquidated Van Vuuren and his wife were once celebrated as the owners of Abashiri, however they quit the racing industry under a cloud last year. Abashiri, after Horse Chestnut (1999) and Louis the King (2014), is only the third horse to win the Triple Crown. Abashiri won last year. It is with sadness that I have to announce that myself and Misty Meadows will exit Horse Racing as owners in the coming season. The abuse of the media and false and inaccurate reporting has destroyed our love and desire for the sport, Van Vuuren wrote on Facebook. Sporting Post and all other evil eyes Well done and mission achieved. Sad day for me but I must be the most stupid man alive to continue in a dishonest hi-jacked two-man circus where I am described and labelled as the main clown. This clown is done and signing out for duty. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;