If you have recently been diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis or you think you may have the condition, then I am sure you would like to know more about this disease.What is it?It is a long term auto-immune disease that affects both your joints, especially the elbows, shoulder, knees, wrists and ankles.Auto-immune is when your body s immune system makes a mistake and picks a wrong target to attack and in this case it is the lining of you joints.People usually confuse between osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis is when your bones become weak and brittle however with rheumatoid arthritis the whole body is affected.What are its symptoms?The symptoms often develop over several weeks, but in some cases they can progress over a number of days. They usually come and go, however they vary from person to person. Joint pain: Usually it first starts in hands and feet. It is often worse in the mornings and after a period of no activity. Joint stiffness: this also occurs in the mornings which can last for long periods (more than 30 minutes). This is when you are not able to fully bend your fingers or form a fist. Swelling, redness and warmth: the lining of the joints affected are usually inflamed which causes them to swell and become hot and tender when touched.Other general symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis include: joint tiredness, lack of energy, limpness, loss of joint function, fever and anaemia.Furthermore, people with this kind of arthritis feel low and sad due to its effect on their body and the pain they are experiencing. There are now effective treatments to treat this condition.What causes it?There are a number of risk factors that cause rheumatoid arthritis, including:Age: the onset is usually between the age of 30 - 50 years. However it can even occur in childhood.Gender: women are more likely to have it than men, some studies show this may be due to the protective effect of the hormone oestrogen.Family history: some people can inherit genes that make them more susceptible to developing rheumatoid arthritis. However this risk factor has been known to play a small role in the condition.Smoking: long term smoking has been proven to increase the risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis, particularly in patients who do not have a family history.How is it treated?There is no actual cure for the condition however early and appropriate treatments allow patients to have periods of months or even years without the symptoms.The main treatment options include:Medications to relieve the symptoms and decrease the progression of the disease.Physiotherapy and occupational therapy to keep the patient mobile and allow them to continue with their day to day activity.Surgery; if any joint related problems occur.In conclusion, there is a lot that can be done to help you live well with Rheumatoid Arthritis.This includes; keeping a healthy weight so that your joints are not in stress, reducing your cholesterol levels, smoking cessation and keeping yourself active and fit by doing gentle physical activities.