South African business people who participated in a trade and investment mission to Ghana have expressed confidence that they will soon see tangible results from the trip, the department of trade and industry (dti) said on Wednesday. The mission is part of the department s week-long trade and investment mission to Ghana and its neighbour, Nigeria, which runs until Saturday, March 25. The two-day Ghanaian leg included a trade and investment seminar, business to business meetings and site visits to the Ghana Ports and Harbour Authority, Group Five and the Ghana Energy Commission. One delegate, Christopher Moonien, said his company, Conlog Solutions for Utilities, which provides electricity metering solutions, had a lead to work with a local power generation company, Cen Power. He said discussions during the trade and investment seminar had been beneficial for his company, as had the site visit to the energy commission. Moonien said Conlog would return to Ghana soon to cement leads from this mission. Hlayisani Matelakengisa, of DCD Ringrollers a manufacturer and supplier of seamless forge products for the rail, petrochemical, civil engineering, power generation and medium to heavy engineering industries was also optimistic. He said opportunities that would arise from the refurbishment of the railways would not benefit only his company, but potentially a lot of other role players in South Africa with capabilities in this area. During the visit to the Ghana Ports Authority, the director of ports, Jacob Kwabwa, said the bad state of the railway lines caused problems with road traffic to and from the ports. He noted that the government of Ghana had introduced a ministry of rail, which was good news for companies in the sector from South Africa and elsewhere. Kwabwa said there was a huge investment opportunity here. The DTI s director of export promotions, Seema Sardha, said she was pleased with the overwhelming response received from the Ghanaian side. She noted enthusiasm from both sides towards building partnerships and value chains, which was a pivotal element of the Agenda 2063 commitments. Sardha urged companies to follow up on the leads generated to ensure that these translated into the economic benefits the continent needed. The mission proceeds to Nigeria, where the programme includes a trade and investment seminar, business to business meetings and site visits from March Thursday March 23 to Saturday 24. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.