While the hairstyle and monthly pay packet are mark edly different &#8211; Manchester Unit ed footballer Maro Fellaini and jockey Raymond Danielson have one thing in common. Both are super-subs . Fellaini often gets a call-up from Jose Mourinho and can slot in a late winner. Danielson is known for standing in success fully when a jockey colleague has been stood down. However, punters need to check his mounts in big races &#8211; particularly when riding for champion trainer, Sean Tarry. It was exactly two years ago Raymond played his part in mak ing it a memorable SA Classic meeting for Sean. In 2015 the drinks were flowing following French Navy s win in the Classic and Siren s Call triumph in the Wilgerbosdrift Fillies Classic. Raymond rode French Navy and made all the right moves on Chris van Niekerk s performer and hopes it ll be the same story on Smiling Blue Eyes in Saturday s second leg of the Triple Tiara. Yes, I m happy with Raymond &#8211; he overcame a wide draw in the Guineas and hope he can win again. He s ridden in a number of features for me and has won on both French Navy and White Line Fever, said Sean. Sean has a very real chance of landing a Classic double on Sat urday with Al Sahem the 12-10 fa vourite for the open race. He still fondly remembers that 2015 meeting, adding those sort of days don t come around that often . A slight worry for the champion trainer is that a number of stables at Randjesfontein have experi enced minor problems. Some are running temperatures &#8211; it means you have to be very vigilant. Sean has always stressed he learnt much from maestro Mike de Kock so it s fascinating that the two stables each have three run ners in the Classic. For Mike, Mathew and young Callan Murray, they ll be hoping it s an action-replay of the Oaks Trial in which Callan matched Anthony Delpech s every move to take the winner s cheque. Two years ago I told Mike de Kock, Sean Tarry and Geoff Wood ruff to check out this youngster Murray &#8211; he just might be our next Muis Roberts . Well, the De Kock team have wholeheartedly thrown their weight behind the youngster and Saturday s jockey bookings are evidence they are happy to have him on their best horses. But it is Raymond Danielson who will travel to the city track feeling he s been given another chance to shine by the champion trainer. I m not sure if his eyes are blue, brown hazel or whatever. What I do know is Raymond will be smil ing from ear to ear if his mount comes up trumps again. * * * No question that commentator Terry Spargo did a tremendous 17- year stint calling the Dubai World Cup and news of his retirement has resulted in plenty of praise for the 61-year-old Aussie. However while he was good, he d have to be rated below the likes of Sir Peter O Sullevan, Aus sie legend Bill Collins and our own USA-based commentator, Trevor Denman.