Which one of these five women will be crowned Miss South Africa 2017? Here&#8217;s everything you need to know about the Miss SA 2017 Top 5. AD VAN HEERDEN . Ad van Heerden is a 25-year-old medical doctor and second lieutenant in the South African Military Health Services. She comes from Herold s Bay in the Western Cape. She won Protea colours in rhythmic gymnastics at the age of 13 and was a gold medal winner at the All African Championships. As a junior doctor Ad doesn t get much spare time, but when she does, she likes boxing and hiking as well as baking anything from extravagant cakes to brownies. BOIPELO MABE . 23-year-old Boipelo Mabe from Alexandra is a full time Masters student, model and news reader on Soweto TV. She was a classical ballet dancer for nine years. She credits her father as her greatest role model. From him I have learned the principles of hard work, standing for what I believe in and to be independent. I used to be embarrassed by the fact that my dad was a taxi driver but today I have grown to embrace and celebrate it. I realised it was his presence, love and support that mattered most to my growth and development as a young woman, not his job title. Boipelo loves the outdoors and road trips far away from the city. DEMI-LEIGH NEL-PETERS . Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters from Sedgefield in the Western Cape is a 21-year-old final year B.Com business management and entrepreneurship student. She is also a part- time model at Boss Models and Vision Management. She was the first girl in her high school to be chosen as head girl of both the school and its hostel. Demi-Leigh was also elected as the Deputy Junior Mayor of the George City Council in grade 11. She makes handmade cards and does scrapbooking. She says her biggest motivator is her half-sister who was born without a cerebellum and is completely disabled. PRIYESHKA LUTCHMAN Priyeshka Lutchman (24) from Yellowwood Park in Durban is a business management student and model. She likes spending her spare time with friends enjoying long lunches and board games. Other favourite pastimes are listening to music, going on picnics and traveling to beautiful and adventurous destinations. Priyeshka loves amusement parks and will always go on the scariest rides which give her an adrenaline rush. She has three brothers. 10 SHAN NAIDOO Shan Naidoo (24) of Benoni is an industrial engineering student at the University of the Witwatersrand who is set to graduate in 2016. She enjoys being outdoors and staying fit and active. Another favourite pastime is trying out new restaurants. Shan loves to bake and often spends Sunday afternoons trying out new healthy recipes to satisfy her sweet tooth. Shan a Miss South Africa finalist in 2015 &#8211; boxes to keep fit. GALLERY: Top 5 Credit: Twitter Sun International