Eating well gives your child the energy he needs to learn and grow. And it ll help him stay healthy, maintain a healthy weight, and establish good lifelong eating habits. Here are some ways to make nutritious food the most appealing choice.A great way to get your child excited about eating a range of healthy foods is to involve him in the family s meal-planning decisions. When you take him food shopping, ask him to check items off the grocery list for you as you shop. Give him a few choices to make along the way: Peaches or mangoes? Peas or carrots?Make a habit of selecting one new fruit or vegetable to try each week, keeping in mind that your child may not be interested in trying something unfamiliar until it s been offered numerous times.Involve them in the kitchenTeach your grade-schooler to follow a simple recipe and measure ingredients. (This is excellent hands-on practice for learning fractions!)Have your child wash the lettuce and toss the salad, grease the baking pans and fill the muffin tins. Let him have some fun pouring pancakes in the shape of his initials or cutting toast into a heart shape.Once he s old enough to handle it, have him grate cheese and even chop fruits and vegetables. (Always supervise your child with knives and electric appliances, of course.)Go to the sourceTake your grade-schooler on an outing to an orchard, berry farm, or dairy so he can see where the food on his plate comes from. The novelty just might inspire him to try something he wouldn t otherwise be interested in.There s nothing like seeing your own food grow to motivate kids to eat their fruits and veggies. Think about planting your own. Even if you don t have much space, you can grow tomatoes or strawberries in a container on a balcony or patio.Be picky about juicesFruit juices count toward your child s daily fruit intake, but be careful about the kind and amount of juice you offer. Serve your grade-schooler only 100 percent fruit juice or fruit-vegetable juice combinations. Some kids even enjoy vegetable juices straight up!If your child won t drink milk, you may want to find juices that are fortified with calcium and vitamin D, but don t offer fruit drinks because they may contain as little as 10 percent juice and an array of flavourings and sweeteners.Juice can contribute to childhood obesity and malnourishment because a child who drinks a great deal of juice gets extra calories and, at the same time, not all the nutrients he needs. Constantly sipping juice can also lead to tooth decay.When he s thirsty, encourage him to drink water. (You can also water down your child s juice, half and half, for the flavour of juice with fewer extra calories.)Shake and bakeSmoothies are an easy way to get fruit and other nutritious foods into your child s diet. All you need is a blender and a few simple ingredients. You can use your choice of fresh fruit, frozen fruit such as berries or bananas (peel before freezing), or even canned pineapple or peaches (strain the syrup first).You might want to include tofu or hard-cooked egg whites they add protein without changing the taste or texture and a bit of ground flax seed for extra fiber and omega 3s. Blend with fruit juice or add milk, yogurt, or frozen yogurt for a creamier drink and a dose of calcium.Whole wheat and bran muffins and quick breads are a good source of grains and fibre, and they can also be a vehicle for fruits and vegetables. Make or buy them with bananas, blueberries, carrots, pineapple, or zucchini.Make it countBe aware of your grade-schooler s nutritional needs, but remember that eating right isn t all about fruits and vegetables. Calcium is especially important during adolescence, when bones are growing rapidly. Three servings of calcium-rich foods per day are needed. Here are some easy ways to serve up good nutrition:A peanut butter sandwich (1 1/2 tablespoons on two slices of whole wheat bread) and one cup of low-fat milk will take care of about a third of your child s recommended daily intake of grain and half of his dairy requirements. It will also provide all of his protein for the day, as well as important nutrients like zinc, vitamin E, magnesium, and essential fatty acids.A slice of cheese pizza is almost a third of the day s dairy, providing over half of the day s protein and vitamin A, zinc, and iron.