A South African National Defence Force soldier allegedly told his commanding officer that he needed to finish his mission to kill his girlfriend and two-month-old baby. This emerged on Tuesday during the bail hearing of Thembinkosi American Ngcobo who allegedly went on a shooting rampage in Ntuzuma last month. Investigating officer Lieutenant Colonel Wise Mabanga told the Ntuzuma Magistrates Court that after it was discovered that Ngcobo had deserted his post during the night, Lieutenant Colonel Lucky Moshwana called Ngcobo on his cell phone to find out where he was. The accused (Ngcobo) told his commander that he was in Durban. The accused informed him (Moshwana) that he has killed his sister-in-law. And then the Lieutenant Colonel pleaded with the accused to surrender himself to the police. Ngcobo is charged with two charges of murder as well as kidnapping, aggravated robbery and attempted murder. He said his mission is still not yet accomplished. His plan is to kill his girlfriend. He also intended to kill his two-month old, of which he denies paternity, said Mabanga. Ngcobo, a soldier with the 8 South African Infantry Battalion (8 SAI), is alleged to have fled his post in Upington last month as he was due to go on guard duty and then drove down to Durban in a fit of jealousy where he shot his girlfriend s sister and her friend. Mabanga told the court that from interviews at the base in Upington, he had been informed that on the night of January 30, Ngcobo had complained of having an upset stomach about 30 minutes after starting guard duty at the base s magazine, where all the ammunition for 8 SAI is stored. No one saw him leave the base. In the morning it was found that Ngcobo had also taken all his personal belongings from the base. It was then that Moshwana made the call to Ngcobo s cell phone and that the alleged conversation took place. According to Mabanga, Ncgobo reportedly arrived at his girlfriend s house in full battle gear, even wearing a steel military helmut. Sitting on the couch was her sister and a friend, each with their respective babies, watching television. The accused entered the house without saying any words to the occupants that were inside. He fired a bullet straight into the chest at close range, said Mabanga. When he left one of the women was still alive according Mabanga. He left the second victim to die without giving assistance, he said. As Ngcobo drove away from the house, he is alleged to have then opened fire on a motorist, whom Mabanga said had since positively identified Ngcobo. He then went on to a place nearby, known as Richmond Farm where he came across his girlfriend s brother, whom he held up and robbed of his cell phone before entering two house in the search for his girlfriend. The brother managed to flee with a relative and alert a police patrol that was passing the nearby Ntuzuma bus depot. Two more police vans were called for back- up and then proceeded to the houses at Richmond Farm, but as they were on their way, Ngcobo s car was spotted coming towards them. Ngcobo jumped out of his vehicle as it was moving and started shooting at the three police vans as his car continued on to collide with a street pole. They were bullet sprayed (sic) by the accused using his rifle, said Mabanga. A police officer and another person were wounded in the shootout. The police officer, according to Mabanga later had to have three of his toes amputated. Ngcobo then allegedly entered a house, where he held a man who was cooking his lunch, hostage while negotiations began. By that stage more units of the police, including the National Intervention Unit and the members of the army had arrived in the area. Mabango said that he then at a later stage received a call from Ngcobo s brother Ayanda, who said Ngcobo said he wanted the media to be present when he surrendered and he wanted to speak to his attorney Sizwe Cele. The first demand was never met by myself. This was not a show. To call the media was not going to assist, said Mabanga. When he did ultimately hand himself over to police, he only had one round left. Defence advocate Paul Jorgensen told the court his client s to call for the media to be present was made as his client feared he would be killed by police. Apart from the criminal charges, Ngcobo also faces two military charges being absent without leave (commonly known as AWOL) and stealing a military weapon. The bail hearing is set to continue on March 10. African News Agency (ANA)