Six minutes into the Sharks&#8217; Super Rugby meeting with the Waratahs, South African rugby groaned as Pat Lambie went off after six minutes with a groin injury. One could feel the despair. Springbok rugby needed the influential flyhalf to build on a decent start to the season after last year&#8217;s troubles. 74 minutes later, the gloom was lifted as his replacement, Curwin Bosch, inspired the Durbanites to an excellent 37-14 win at Kings Park on Saturday evening. The 19-year-old prodigy was simply outstanding, contributing 27 points on his own and showing the type of authority very rare in a player his age. It was Bosch that gave the Sharks the advantage they would never relinquish after his instincts led to an intercept try. And, of course, his goal-kicking was ruthless. But this win wasn&#8217;t all about Bosch. This was a collective triumph, one where the Sharks actually showed again that a balanced game-plan is hardly irrelevant. In a season where South Africa sides are keen to play running, attacking rugby, coach Robert du Preez has decided on a formula that will gradually get the Sharks there. Their structure on defence was outstanding and used as a weapon for keeping the scoreboard ticking. Importantly in the national context too, it seems that the Springbok props Beast Mtawarira and Coenie Oosthuizen are reaching their best form. As a result, the scrums are providing the Sharks a good platform while lock Ruan Botha is emerging as a very classy line-out man. But it&#8217;s the powerful loose trio of Philip van der Walt, Jean-Luc du Preez and Tera Mtembu that&#8217;s making the headlines. All three were magnificent all-round again, carrying the ball effectively and marking opposition runners ruthlessly. Du Preez will be disappointed with a tame second half performance as errors crept in and the backline struggled for rhythm. Yet that&#8217;s easily something the Sharks can rectify, especially if this backline can stay intact. Point scorers: Sharks (31) &#8211; Tries: Tera Mtembu, Curwin Bosch, Kobus van Wyk. Conversions: Bosch (2). Penalties: Bosch (6). Waratahs (7) &#8211; Tries: Israel Folau (2). Conversions: Reece Robinson (2). For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.