The support for ANC deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over from President Jacob Zuma as the president of the ruling ANC is gaining momentum within the ANC-aligned trade union movement with Cosatu in Limpopo and Free State joining the fray. Following its provincial executive committee meeting held last week, Cosatu Limpopo resolved to back Ramaphosa to become ANC president, come the December ANC elective national conference. At the conference, to be held in Gauteng, Ramaphosa would be contesting for the ANC presidency against Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The federation&#8217;s provincial secretary, Gerald Twala said that the PEC has decided that Cosatu affiliates must use every available platform to communicate the recent Cosatu Central Executive Committee decision to back Ramaphosa. Twala said Cosatu would participate in ANC branches to influence their direction to support Ramaphosa. He lambasted the divisions within the ANC in the province and reports that the so-called Premier League planned to oust Limpopo Premier Stanley Mathabatha. Mathabatha is believed to be supporting Ramaphosa instead of Dlamini-Zuma to succeed Zuma. Dlamini-Zuma, on the other hand, is backed by the Premier League, a cabal within the ANC led by premiers of Free State, North West and Mpumalanga. &#8220;On the speculation of the recall of the premier, the PEC resolved that the federation rejects any move and attempt to impose a Premier League sponsored candidate to be the Premier of the province,&#8221;Twala said. &#8220;The PEC resolved that the federation must continue to consistently denounce and disrupt factionalism and divisions with the movement in the province,&#8221;Twala added. The federation would continue to work with progressive forces and individuals within the leadership of the alliance to ensure that credible leaders were identified and elected in the next ANC provincial conference in Limpopo. It would also work for unity within the ANC branches during and after its regional conferences. Recently Cosatu in the Free State resolved to back Ramaphosa as well. &#8220;The PEC accepted the responsibility and resolved to work towards the realization of this objective by the federation by making a contribution within our means for such, &#8220;said Free State provincial secretary, Monyatso oa Mahlatsi said. Mahlatsi urged Cosatu Free State members to unite behind Ramaphosa as they lobby within the ANC. &#8220;We would like to implore upon all our leaders that we need a united and strong ANC ,even after December 2017,&#8221; he said. Last week the new workers federation, convened by former Cosatu general secretary, Zwelinzima Vavi rejected any ANC leader including both Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.