Not that they normally need much encouraging to reimagine things, a call went out on Thursday to those natural-born rebels in the arts community to submit proposals on reinventing arts education in South Africa. The Arts &amp; Culture Trust (ACT), South Africa s premier independent arts funding and development agency, and the University of Johannesburg (UJ) Creative Conference is asking for proposals for 20-minute presentations at the 2017 #CreativeUprising Conference. ACT said in a statement: To create a relevant arts education curricula a process of unlearning and relearning is required. There is a need for a critical reimagining of how the arts are understood and how teaching is approached. It noted that after action by the #RhodesMustFall movement, the hierarchy between students and teachers had been altered by questions from both sides that could not be answered by the current curricula. The fifth ACT/UJ Creative Conference, to be held from July 27-29 at the University of Johannesburg, will bring together key stakeholders in basic, tertiary, virtual and informal education and training, including school teachers, learners, academics, students, arts practitioners, organisations and policymakers. It aims to reclaim a relevant identity for South African arts education , according to the statement. The presentations were described as including, but not limited to, essays, photographic essays, graphic interventions, new media, disruptions and performances. The call is for proposals for presentations that deal with the following themes: Critical practice: What is a decolonised arts education? What is the relationship of decolonisation and Africanisation in arts education? Practice what we preach: How do we go about teaching a decolonised arts curriculum? What are the practical implications for teaching a decolonised curriculum? Whose culture is it anyway: What role does culture play in a decolonised art curriculum? Accessible arts education: In what ways can we extend access to arts education within South Africa and across Africa? Woke arts: What is the relationship between academia, activism and art? Creative networks: How can arts educators across all basic, tertiary and informal sectors collaborate more effectively? In what ways can we build networks of arts educators across Africa? Arts education matters: Can the arts be used as a social transformational tool and can it succeed in transcending or dismantling barriers to representation? More information available at www.act.org.za African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.