It is holiday time at Turffon tein tomorrow and it looks like fans are in for some entertaining, yet competi tive racing. To add to the thrill there is a Pick 6 carryover of R200,000 with the pool expected to reach R1.6 million. There are eight intriguing races on this card which will be run on the Inside track and half of them are devoted to fillies and mares. With that in mind it could pay to go with a filly aptly named Intrigu ing Lady in Race 7, a FM 82 Handi cap over 1200m. This Mike de Ko c k- t r a i ne d runner ap peared to have a bright future when winning on debut, beating Dawn Calling by 4.75 lengths over 800m at Scotts ville. De Kock wasted no time running her in some of the top juvenile features and she did well enough, finishing third behind Exquisite Touch in the Listed Ruf fian Stakes and in the same posi tion in the Grade 3 Pretty Polly Stakes behind Cloth Of Cloud. She went to Durban to contest some of the top juvenile features over the winter season but did not always get the best of the draws. She lost her way a little after that but her last run, when finishing a 1.50-length third behind Yellow Metal over this course and dis tance, was most promising. Her merit rating has come down and she looks ready to win again. Ryan Munger got the ride on Intriguing Lady last time and has been retained for the ride. They jump from barrier No 4. One needs to take cognisance of anything trained by Sean Tar ry and in this race he saddles So Foxy. This three-year-old daugh ter of Dupont has only raced three times, placing in the first two and then running out a 5.25-length winner over Madam Secre tary. The runner-up failed to frank the form last time but she did finish second to a very promis ing Alec Laird-trained first-tim er, State Star. First Dance was reported to be making a respiratory noise when unplaced behind The Smell Of Rain last time. On paper both Winter Al and Shivering Sea hold Secret Star but Winter Al is clear ly better over 1000m while Piere Strydom, who rode Shivering Sea in her last two starts, has stayed with Secret Star.