A moment of catching magic by Hashim Amla gave the Proteas a window to keep the first Test against New Zealand in Dunedin tight. The home side ended the second day on Thursday in control at 177/3 after a lower order collapse saw South Africa only tally 308 in their first innings. Also read: Dean Elgar chooses the best way to punish: slow and torturous But Amla&#8217;s magnificent grab at first slip when the out-of-form Henry Nicholls (10) pushed at a Keshav Maharaj delivery means the visitors perhaps only need to strike early once again to level proceedings again. South Africa will also be helped if veteran Ross Taylor&#8217;s calf injury is serious enough to keep him out of the rest of the match. He had pushed Morne Morkel to square leg and was looking to complete a second run but in the process of looking for a second run, sustained the injury. Taylor looked really annoyed at the amount of time it took his physio to get out and treat him. That suggests the calf may be more damaged than some would be willing to concede. Talking of Morkel, the lanky quick certainly made his mark again &#8211; in his own frustrating way. He was by far the Proteas&#8217; best bowler and justified the selectors&#8217; faith in him. But Morkel&#8217;s always been an unlucky bowler, a man who doesn&#8217;t always get rewarded with wickets. It was the case here again. Kane Williamson, the Black Caps skipper, put a mediocre one-day series behind him to play a sparkling innings. He will resume on 78 on Friday and looks set for a 16th Test century. Opener Jeet Raval (52) also looked comfortable before he clipped Maharaj (2/57) straight to mid-wicket, gifting the Proteas their first chance to cling on. Earlier, they lost their last six wickets for 56 runs as the hard graft on the opening day was wasted. Despite Dean Elgar moving to a career-best 140, the Proteas struggled to cope with the brilliance of Trent Boult (4/64) and Neil Wagner (3/88). Only diminutive Temba Bavuma, showing his penchant for delivering his best when the pressure is on, provided fight with a dogged 64. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.