Fadhili Alawi, 31, boasts of having been an energetic daladala conductor before he started feeling weak and later abandoned his job due to complications of tuberculosis (TB). That was way back in January last year.Today, as he narrates his story, he recalls his early days grappling with a cough, which he had initially ignored. But he says this with regrets reason? Alawi believes he might have unknowingly spread the bacteria, infecting other people who were close to him.If left untreated in the community, one TB patient can infect up to 15 others in a span of one year, data from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Children and Elderly show.However, it may take long for people infected by the bacteria to develop the symptoms of TB, said Dr Grace Shayo of Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (Muhas) during a recent TB symposium at the varsity.There is what we call Active TB and Latent TB. In active TB patients, the disease is highly contagious. Alawi was an active TB patient by the time he was coughing and feeling weak.Alawi, the resident of Kigamboni district in Dar es Salaam, states that he had coughed for about two months before realising that he was infected with TB. I used to cough and cough at times in the daladala- full of passengers and; with my mouth wide open, he says as he regrettably recalls, I always believed it was a common cold that would simply go away with time. But I was wrong. It persisted. He had already crossed the latent phase. For Latent TB, according to Dr Shayo, it means that the patient is infected with the bacteria, but the patient does not have active tuberculosis symptoms.She said during her presentation titled: TB Preventive Therapies , that active tuberculosis can be contagious [like in Alawi s case] while for latent tuberculosis [those who haven t showed symptoms yet] it is not contagious. It s therefore not possible for someone to get TB from someone with latent tuberculosis, said Dr Shayo at the Muhas symposium strategically organised towards World TB Day commemorations scheduled for Friday this week.It s never too lateOn Wednesday last week, when Your Health spoke to Alawi, it was his 224th day since he began his treatment. We caught up with him at the Mwananyamala Regional Hospital where he had gone to pick his anti-TB drugs.TB patients who are on regular medications cannot easily spread the disease to other members of the community, says Ms Agnes Samani, the nurse attending Alawi.Alawi proceeds with his treatment at home. He only goes periodically to pick his drugs at the hospital and he s undergoing some routine tests - a TB treatment procedure known to experts as home-based DOTS.DOTS, is the short form for Directly Observed Treatment, short course a TB control strategy recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO).According to WHO, DOTS is The most cost-effective way to stop the spread of TB in communities with a high incidence by curing it. The red handkerchiefDuring the interview, Alawi appeared somewhat slim. But he was quick to say, jokingly, I have started to put on weight. I was thinner about four months ago, he said, attributing his health improvement to the anti-TB drugs he has been taking. If not for my mother who insisted that I should go to the hospital, I believe the problem could have turned worse, says Alawi.As he speaks, one thing remains on top of his mind. He says, For all the months I have been on treatment, I have learnt many things about TB. I have been educated by health workers how I should protect myself and others. Now I know that a person, who coughs for more than two weeks, appears to lose weight and often sweats at night, should be evaluated for TB. I know a friend who died from this kind of cough. I think it s because he did not seek treatment. But also, it s important that we, as survivors of TB, try to educate others, he says this as he shows a red handkerchief, which he now uses to cover up his mouth whenever he coughs. Today, when I was coming to the hospital, I coughed about three times in a daladala but I covered up my mouth using this handkerchief. Before the doctors educated me on how the disease spreads, I never used to care about the coughing etiquette, says Alawi.The lost generationAlawi and several other patients are now following up on their treatment at various clinics across the country but not all the people affected by the disease are known and treated early, like in Alawi s case.Experts in infectious diseases in Tanzania say there is a significant number of people in communities in the country who are infected with the bacteria causing TB but they are yet to be tracked down.The fact that those patients remain untreated, it means that the risk of transmitting the disease to others increases too, thus contributing to the disease burden.Every year, Tanzania records an average of 63, 000 TB patients, making the country rank number 6 among African nations with the highest TB burden on the World Health Organisation s scale.Globally, there are an estimated 10.4 million people with TB. But only 6.1 million reported cases. There is a gap of 4.3million people who cannot be accounted for the treatment gap, according to World Health Organisation.The targets of National TB and Leprosy Program (NTLP) in Tanzania is to reach at least 142 TB patients out of every 100,000 people in the country. NTLP data shows that 46 per cent of TB patients cannot be accounted for.Researchers say this can be achieved if only communities are well sensitized on how to identify patients infected by bacteria causing TB and mobilise them for treatment.Dr Peter Asilia, a researcher from the Ifakara Health Institute (IHI) says that people in communities where the TB risk is high may not be able to identify the classical symptoms of the disease in a community member due to lack of awareness. So, a TB patient could stay long among other members without getting the right attention. Many of them abuse antibiotics for long before reporting to the health facilities for evaluation, says Dr Asilia.The Regional TB and Leprosy Coordinator for Kinondoni District, Dr Mrisho Lupinda says TB patients are being tracked down by health officers through community members so that they get enrolled on treatment which is free of charge. To be able to scale down TB cases in the country, the best strategy is to ensure that all the newly infected people are known by household and location and possibly put on treatment, says Dr Lupinda.However, it s a tall order to get everyone on treatment, says Ms Asha Msimuro, the Chairperson of an NGO that seeks to eliminate tuberculosis and leprosy in Kinondoni District TOKIKUKI (Tokomeza Kifua Kikuu na Ukoma Kinondoni). Our role is to trace all people with TB in the community. We would have wished to reach everyone infected with the disease but there are behavioural, logistical and technological challenges, says Ms Msimuro. Besides, there are those patients we have tracked down and put on treatment, yet they default their course of medications. We are trying to educate the good patients so that they can preach to their fellows that defaulting is not good, she adds. You see, defaulting treatment is even bad enough. There is a high risk of a defaulter of medications to spread a more dangerous form of TB, which is more resistant to medications, she cautions.Dr Georges Mgode from Sokoine University of Agriculture(SUA) has once proposed that trained giant rats under Apopo project can help detect up to 6,000 TB cases in a community.But according to an official from NTLP, Dr Johnson Lymo, diagnosis by using giant rats is yet to be approved by the WHO for the government programs.