Too often, I get questioned by patients who have previously undergone surgery to remove fibroids. After how long can I conceive post surgery? You see, being pregnant can also biologically protect the woman from the fibroid tumours this fact is unknown to many.Biologically speaking, there is a possibility that the fibroid may develop again within six months, so it is advised that a woman conceives 3-4 months after the surgery.For your information, fibroids are tissue growths that develop in the muscles of the womb.They are the most common tumours in women of reproductive age affecting 12-25 per cent of women in this age-bracket but they are not cancerous.And if left untreated, the fibroids may naturally shrink after a woman reaches menopause the time when her reproductive cycles have come to a complete stop.But for those who have not gone beyond child bearing age, the removal of the fibroid is optional as the woman can still be able to bear children after wards.So, treatment is subjective it depends on the size and type of fibroid, the age of the patient--whether she wishes to have babies or not. It also depends on whether the symptoms are severe or not.In the treatment of fibroids, the major goal is to relieve the women of the symptoms and this is only specific for women who are experiencing disturbing symptoms.But a fibroid may be left without any medical intervention if no symptoms.In this case, the woman needs to visit a doctor regularly for a follow up of about six months. Here, the size of the fibroid is measured at each visit.A doctor may decide that a woman undergoes surgery when she complains of failing to conceive or when she loses pregnancies more often or even when she experiences abnormal bleeding.Here, the womb may be completely removed surgically what we call in a doctor s language as hysterectomy . The surgeon may also decide to remove the fibroid alone what they call myomectomy.Now, what actually causes fibroids?It s another question I bump into almost always. Well, the cause is not known.These tumors are most common in reproductive age and there is research evidence showing that they are linked to reproductive hormones---estrogen and progesterone.Risk factors associated with fibroids One of them is frequent child birth. Race is another factor. Some studies show that fibroids are 2 to 3 times more common in black than the white women the reason for this occurrence is not quite clear. Another risk factor is early onset of menstruation starting at less than 10 years of age. Yet, obesity can also increase the chances of developing fibroids. Eating too much red meat and alcohol consumption is associated with increased risk. Smoking cigarettes cannot be ignored. It s said to increase risk of fibroids, many studies have indicated. Heredity here it means that there is a possibility of getting a fibroid among women in families where a fibroid case has been reported.The author is Medical Doctor based in Dar es Salaam.