Current political leaders must listen when stalwarts talk, Gauteng Premier David Makhura told mourners at the funeral of ANC veteran Ahmed Kathrada on Wednesday. Makhura was giving a welcome speech on behalf of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. Makhura said even when buried, Kathrada would continue to be a voice of reason. &#8220;When our stalwarts speak and try to correct us, we must listen as current leaders,&#8221; Makhura said. The funeral service of &#8216;Uncle Kathy&#8217;, as he was fondly known, has been attended by various stalwarts, including former President Thabo Mbeki, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and Andrew Mlangeni. EFF leader Julias Malema is also there seated next to Madikizela-Mandela, while the likes of Gwede Mantashe, Cyril Ramaphosa and Pravin Gordhan are also there to pay their last respects. Earlier Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa has also arrived at the West Park cemetery in Johannesburg, where ANC veteran Ahmed Kathrada will be laid to rest. Speaking to journalists, Ramaphosa said the funeral marked a very sad moment in the country, considering the important role Kathrada played in the fight against apartheid. Ahmed Kathrada funeral. Picture: Steven Tau Ramaphosa is expected to lead the send off. Uncle Kathy, as he was known by many, will be buried next to other prominent South African figures, including Solomon &#8216;Stix&#8217; Morewa. The tribute programme is expected to commence as soon as the body of Kathrada arrives at about 10am. Before his death on Tuesday, Kathrada was among the remaining three Rivonia trialists. Earlier Mourners continued to arrive at the West Park cemetery in Johannesburg ahead of the funeral service of fallen ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada. &#8216;Uncle Kathy&#8217;, as he was called by many, passed away on Tuesday morning in hospital, where he spent the last couple of weeks after undergoing surgery. His body will arrive shortly before 9.30am on Wednesday. Preparations have been well under way, with a huge marquee not far from where Kathrada will be buried. Ahmed Kathrada funeral. Picture: Steven Tau Among the prominent people expected at the funeral include ANC struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and former presidents Thabo Mbeki and Kgalema Motlanthe,. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to represent national government. &nbsp;