Recently, I was resting at home, skimming through The Citizen newspaper. Then, suddenly I got a phone call from my colleague at work Dr Haule.Dr Haule and I have a cordial relationship, so, he asked if I could substitute the day s work on his behalf. I didn t turn down his humble request.Soon, I hired a cab to work but upon arrival at the hospital, my eyes landed on a long queue of patients all waiting for my service.I briskly walked towards Doctor s room number 2 but before I could set my foot into the room, a lady screamed in pain. She wept like a little child.Looking at her, I discovered she was the very same lady a patient with sickle cell disease who had been admitted due to painful crisis. In medical language, this pain is known as Vaso-occlusive Crisis. But as a doctor, I realised that her pain was still in the initial phase prodromal phase as it is biologically referred to.When the red cells change shapePatients with sickle cell usually go through this kind of pain but to understand how the pain comes about, it s important to get to know how sickle cell comes about.Have you ever seen a sickle-shape? A sickle is a hand-held crescent, moon-like tool, often used for harvesting crops or cutting grass for livestock/ animal feeds.Thus, sickle cell disease is when the red cells in your blood turn into a sickle s shape it s a genetic phenomenon.The consequence of this is that the red blood cells, which were supposed to move easily through your blood vessels, taking oxygen to every part of your body, can t do that anymore.They are Sickled Cells so they get stuck in the blood vessels due to their shape.This situation leads to a lot of pain. Bad enough, this disease is inherited.The patient who was going through this kind of pain became my friend.Later, when I found her in the ward, I continued probing her about the condition she had.However, she didn t want to reveal whether her family had suffered from the same disease.But it s obvious that for someone to get this disease, one must inherit two sickle cell genes one from each of the parents.When you inherit the gene from just one parent, doctors say that you have a sickle cell trait. Having this trait, doctors will term you a carrier , this means that you can pass on the gene to your children.My patient never revealed any history for me to understand all this, but science dictates.Despite being given fluids, and anti-pains, her pains were never completely relieved.The pains were spreading from arms, to the legs at times to the back; punctuated by short periods of improvement.I must honestly acknowledge that it was my first time to witness such kind of intractable pains in a sickle cell patient.I never gave up treating the lady in painEvery time I had encountered a sickle cell patient; it barely took two hours for him/her to absolutely recuperate and be discharged.You know the problem with me is that, I refuse to be overpowered by challenges.Rather, when I encounter a complex scenario, I simply devote myself and seek further consultations and explanations until I have a firm understanding.Thus, I had to go the hospital study room and pick some guidelines, the Tanzania Standard Treatment Guidelines but all that ended up in vain because I didn t find any explanation regarding such an exceptional circumstance.Then, I had to consult some online senior doctors with experience in sickle cell disease care and research, including Dr Samir K, Dr Mym Yaster, whereby I found lot of similar stories garnered from their experience.I found out that two doses of a steroid (they recommend Methyl prednisone 4mg) drug, taken for two days and could results in rapid reduction in pain and could shorten hospital stay.This drug is not available in Tanzania in tablet form, it s available as an injection in the vial of 125 to 500 mg whereby the 500mg vial was being sold at Sh85,000 in one of the pharmacies in Dar es salaam.Of course, to administer this medication, they insist on some rather complex approaches but I never gave up treating the lady.With time, she felt some relief, then before leaving I had to order an X-ray of the left arm since it was swollen and painful. When I spoke of Referral , the lady didn t want to be referred to another hospital.Then she had some questions.She asked, So doctor, what triggers the crisis? I replied, More often than not, triggers include cold, temperatures, dehydration, high altitude, too much exercises, infections; even smoking can trigger a crisis. She asked again, Doctor, so how will I manage life with sickle cell disease? I responded, Regular checkups are important, take medications as they were prescribed for you in the ward (Folic acid, Hemovit syrup, and Hydroxyurea). If you have a sibling at home, taking prophylactic antibiotics and immuninization is vital, and take fluids sufficiently. I continued, When you know that you are a sickler , you live a simple life punctuated by obvious disturbances. You know your needs, you know your treatments, you accept challenges and solve them, thus it s imperative to understand that sickle cell disease reiterates the preciousness of a simple life. That was my honest advice to her.The author is a medical doctor, researcher and young scientist based in Dar es Salaam.