If the National Assembly approves a list of five people recommended to serve on an interim South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) board on Wednesday, the five nominees would have to roll up their sleeves immediately to fix the embattled broadcaster. Parliament s portfolio committe on communications managed to whittle a list of 17 candidates down to five. The list contained four ruling African National Congress candidates and one proposed by the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA). The five names to be recommended to Parliament would be Krish Naidoo, Febe Potgieter-Nqubule, Khanyisile Kweyama, Mathatha Tsedu and John Mattison, committee chairperson Humphrey Maxegwana announced following a brief meeting, Naidoo is a human rights lawyer and former SABC board member who resigned during a committee meeting last year and testified during the parliament inquiry into the broadcaster that he had objected to the appointment of the controversial former SABC chief operating officer as well as a deal struck with Multi-Choice. Febe Potgieter-Nqubule is a former ANC MP and recently served as deputy chief of staff of former African Union Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Khanyisile Kweyama is the former chief executive of Business Unity South Africa and has held leadership positions at various JSE-listed companies. Mathatha Tsedu, a veteran journalist, former editor, and Wits journalist professor, is also on the list. The last name on the list, nominated by the DA, is John Mattison, an author and journalist. Maxegwana said a report would be compiled next week before being submitted to the National Assembly (NA) for approval. The naming of the five preferred candidates to serve on the interim board comes a day after the NA adopted a report from the ad hoc committee which tabled a damning report on the affairs of the SABC. The committee recommended, among others, the dissolution of the remaining board members which are executives James Aguma (acting group chief executive), Bessie Tugwana (acting chief operating officer), and Audrey Raphela (acting chief financial officer). It also recommended that President Jacob Zuma look at Communications Minister Faith Muthambi s fitness for her position, also stating that any violations of the Constitution, Privileges Act, the Executive Code of Ethics be referred to Parliament s Ethics Committee. The interim board would be tasked with improving the SABC s cashflow, which is dwindling, improving governance, and investigating all contracts with its competitors which includes the Gupta-owned ANN7. Those recommendations are saviours of South Africans so the people we have agreed upon as the interim board, they must hit the ground running and support that they will have to get from us as members of the committee, said Maxegwana. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.