A journalist from Kokstad in KwaZulu-Natal has landed himself in hot water for an alleged racist Facebook post stating that South Africa belonged only to black people. The full Facebook status update which was posted on Monday morning read: Let me remind you that South Africa belongs to Black People and all other racial groups are nothing but aliens . The post sparked outrage amongst social media users who stated that the words amounted to hate speech. Some threatened to report Andile Moshoeshoe to the SA Human Rights Commission. Additional comments allegedly made by Moshoeshoe refer to his stance that certain people should be [necklaced] as they did to our freedom fighters . He also allegedly referred to black people as stupid Kaffirs . The matter was further escalated when social activist Yusuf Abramjee reported the incident to the journalist s supposed employer. Moshoeshoe s Facebook profile cited that he worked as as a senior political correspondent at Gagasi FM, a commercial radio station in KwaZulu-Natal. However, in a tweet, the radio station disputed the claims and said that Moshoeshoe did not hold any full time position within the station. #GagasiFM has noted the unfortunate and discriminatory comments made by Andile Moshoeshoe on social media. &mdash; Gagasi FM (@gagasifm) March 6, 2017 Gagasi FM tweeted that Moshoeshoe s relationship with the station was on an ad hoc basis, where as a news stringer he would provide stories for new bulletins. We would like to put it on record that the relationship that Moshoeshoe has with the station is that of a news stringer only&#8230; &mdash; Gagasi FM (@gagasifm) March 6, 2017 He doesn t hold any full time position within the station, therefore claims that he s a senior political reporter at #GagasFM are untrue and misleading. In fact there is no such position within the station, the station tweeted. He doesn&#39;t hold any full time position within the station, therefore claims that he&#39;s a Senior Political Reporter at #GagasiFM are untrue &mdash; Gagasi FM (@gagasifm) March 6, 2017 We would like to categorically distance the name of the station from any statement that Moshoeshoe makes on his personal capacity. Furthermore, as the corporate citizen, GagasiFM is firmly against hate speech or discrimination of any form. We would like to categorically distance the name of the station from any statement that Moshoeshoe makes on his personal capacity. &mdash; Gagasi FM (@gagasifm) March 6, 2017 The radio station further stated that it would be reviewing its working relationship with Moshoeshoe and a decision would be taken in line with the company s values. Moshoeshoe has since apologised for his comments posted on social media in a subsequent Facebook update which reads: This is with regret to notably retract the statements I made on Facebook this morning. The response received by the comments I made seemed to be tearing hearts of fellow South Africans just made me to understand that such sentiments are not warranted and are not constructive to our beloved democratic country. With this, I retract and apologise sincerely. -African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.