Sexpo 2017 is back for its sexiest performance yet this March. Returning bigger and better than ever, the popular health, sexuality and lifestyle expo will be held at the Sandton Convention Centre from the 22nd 25th of March 2017. Drawing much of the attention as one of the headline attractions is none other than Nikki du Plessis, the current reigning Miss Nude SA. The gorgeous South African model ranked number 39 in SA FHM s Top 100 sexiest women in 2012, after which she went on to travel the USA, was featured on Playboy.com and Playboy Plus and then became the South African Miss April 2014 Playboy Playmate. Being crowned Sexpo s Miss Nude SA 2016 was the cherry on top for this sexy stunner. Sexpo is therefore thrilled to announce that this local beauty and international sensation will be at Sexpo 2017 to sign autographs and pose for photos. Additionally, entries for Miss Nude 2017 are now open for anyone wishing to try their luck for the title. There is more than enough time for any Miss Nude hopefuls to enter before the final winner will be announced. Entry is as simple as sending a clear photo and a description through to Sexpo, who will then send entrants an application form for completion. The finalists will be announced the week before Sexpo via social media platforms and the winner of Miss Nude SA 2017 will be announced on Saturday 25th of March at Sexpo 2017. The grand reveal will take place at the Main Stage at 21:15pm. Anyone who feels that they have what it takes to become the next Miss Nude SA can send a motivational write-up and picture to missnude@sexpo.co.za. Apart from bragging rights, the winner will receive a R20 000 cash prize. Nikki Bateleur, Miss Nude SA. Picture: Supplied Along with the gorgeous Nikki and the announcement of the new Miss Nude SA, the 2017 entertainment line-up is packed full of sensual goodness. This includes Pricasso, the all-time favourite penile painter, the tantalising Theatre Erotic, scintillating Sexpo workshops and even some macho Man Cave strip poker. In fact, it might be necessary to attend all four days to get the full-blown experience! Don t forget the array of lounges available to cater to all tastes ranging from a sexy Swingers Lounge, a BDSM play area for anyone in the mood, a Teasers Lounge, and, for the ladies, a Teaze-Hers Lounge. With all this and more, 2017 s Sexpo will most certainly be a sensation destination. Bearing in mind that education and health are integral parts of Sexpo, managing director Sean Newman says Sexpo is about exploring the full spectrum of the sensual side of life, rather than pure sexuality catering to all interests and tastes. Sexpo is a destination lifestyle exhibition that provides a safe space for everyone regardless of race, age or sexuality, or whether you re daring or shy. There s something for everyone to explore and enjoy. As if this spectacular array weren&#8217;t enough to whet the appetite, Sexpo will also be hosting a sizzling four-day main attraction The breathtaking Thunder from Down Under Stage show. Simply delectable Aussie beefcakes pulling off erotic dance routines in the specifically designated Thunder Dome area &#8211; what more could anyone ask for? A Sexpo ticket provides access to the shows, and, with shows running at 7.30pm on Wednesday and Thursday, 8pm on Friday and 12 midday and 7pm on Saturday, there is simply no excuse not to attend. It s important to remember that the early bird catches the worm as the doors open one hour prior to each show and seating is on a first-come, first-serve basis. &nbsp; Sexpo is strictly for over 18s only and pricing is as follows: R150 General Admission, which includes a ticket to the exhibition floor, stage shows and floor attractions, and R299 for VIP admission which includes 1 x Sexpo ticket, fast-track queues and a goodie bag valued at R500. Tickets can be bought from Computicket and more information about what there is to see and do at Sexpo can be viewed at www.sexpo.co.za