The foundations for a good life has to be built quite early in life, this is because everyone wants to see children grow up into responsible adults.In order for a society to have good citizens, parents and other people have jobs to do and that is to teach children what to do as they grow up.Teaching children about charity can be rewarding for both parents and the children. It is true that learning about sharing, giving and helping others especially ones in need give children a good feeling.Introducing children into charity work should start at home.Parents should encourage everyone in their house to take part in charity activities.Having respectful, kind children who are willing to help those in need is a blessing, therefore children are advised to participate in charity work at a very young age.According to www.commbank.com.au, sharing their good fortune with others can be one of the most important money lessons children can learn.It can help them understand their role within the community and the ways in which small acts can have a greater effect. It can also help them think about others.Sharing comes naturally to young children. So the key is to encourage children to participate in it and the best way to do this is for parents to be good role models.Maria Samuel is a Sunday School teacher at Tanzania Assemblies of God (TAG) Mburahati, she believes that teaching and introducing children into charity work makes them aware of the real world. When children participate in charity work it makes people feel better, because it builds confidence and self-worth in the right way. They learn to share what they have with those who are in needy. They learn and get experience of helping other human beings, says Maria.Vanessa John is a young girl who is growing up to serve others, last year her mother took her to an orphanage where she donated some of the things that she had in her bag. My mother asked me what I learnt from the visit. She told me that, giving my time to those in needy will expand my network, I think she was talking about making new friends and boost my social skills, says the Grade Six pupil.She adds: On that day I had some Sh20,000 and I gave it all to the children at the centre, I felt some relief in what I had done.Junior Alpha Tumaini Primary School says that one of his teachers told them on how they should always offer vital help to people in need. He told us that charity work had changed his life, and made him want to change other peoples lives especially his pupils, said the 13-year-old boy.To him it is very important to teach children that they are part of a society. Children need to be encouraged to grow up with a healthy sense of humanity and a strong charitable spirit. This will teach them to care for those less fortunate than themselves. 