A sense of individual style has always been an integral part of the unmistakable MINI feeling. . MINI South Africa is now going further in showcasing the distinctive qualities of the MINI brand in the small premium car segment by offering a new limited edition MINI Cooper 3-door Hatch. A sense of individual style has always been an integral part of the unmistakable MINI feeling. MINI South Africa is now going further in showcasing the distinctive qualities of the MINI brand in the small premium car segment by offering a new limited edition MINI Cooper 3-door Hatch. Available in South Africa from this month (September), the 29 units of the new limited edition MINI Cooper 3-door Hatch will be offered in the Caribbean Aqua metallic paint that has been exclusively offered with the MINI Convertible. . Contiuing to present a particularly striking combination of the brand s traditional values and progressive product quality of the current MINI models, the new limited edition MINI Cooper 3-door Hatch comes standard with the following features: 6-speed automatic transmission with Steptronic 17&#8243; Cosmos Spoke Silver light alloy wheels Caribbean Aqua metallic exterior paint Black roof and mirror caps Piano black interior Black bonnet stripes Athracite headliner Chrome line interior Automatic air conditioning Armrest MINI Connected The new limited edition MINI Cooper 3-door Hatch is also available in two package options. The first package includes all standard features already mentioned and LED headlights, whicle the second package is offered with the standard features as well as the Rear Park Distance Control (PDC) and Harmon Kardon Hi-Fi loud speakers 12 speaker system with a Digital Signal Processor (DSP) amplifier. Powered by a 3-cylinder petrol engine with MINI TwinPower Turbo Technology (turbo charging, direct injection, fully variable valve control, variable camshaft control), the new limited edition MINI Cooper 3-door hatch generates a peak power output of 100kW at 4 500 to 6 000 rpm and torque of 220Nm at 1,250 rpm. The top speed is 210 km/h and the 0 to 100km/h acceleration can be reached in 7,8 seconds while the average fuel consumption is 4,9l/100 kilometres (CO2 emissions: 115 g/km). . Pricing is R399, 000 and includes VAT, CO2 tax and a 5-year/100 000 km Motorplan maintenance contract covering all service, maintenance and repairs resulting from normal wear and tear. The contract distance can be extended up to 200 000 km, dependending on individual needs.