The City of Cape Town has rewarded 30 tenants living in council rental units (CRUs) for paying their rent consistently. Each tenant received a gift voucher to the value of R1000, the city said on Sunday. The city s latest round of incentive scheme awards took place this week where tenants of council rental stock were handed gift vouchers to thank them for their regular rental payment, mayoral committee member for assets and facilities management Stuart Diamond said on Sunday. Some of the 30 tenants who qualified were pensioners who were setting a good example for other residents, including the oldest beneficiary Martha Snyman, 88, from Brackenfell, Nomalizo Bulebule from Langa, and Naaim Theron from Hanover Park, both 83. The handover event was quite a heart-warming moment to share with some of our most senior tenants. I must commend them for consistently paying their rent in these tough economic times, especially given that most are pensioners, Diamond said. To qualify for the incentive scheme, tenants had to have paid their rent consecutively for three months and be legitimate occupants in terms of the city s rental housing policy and tenant agreements. Six winners were drawn each month. The most recent beneficiaries were drawn for the period February to June 2017. The awards are the result of an incentive scheme which goes back to 2010 as part of our efforts to increase our percentage of rental collections by rewarding those who pay their accounts regularly. Since the inception of the scheme more than 300 residents have benefitted. When tenants pay their rent regularly and on time it assists us with being able to do maintenance on the rental units, thus ensuring a higher quality of services to tenants, Diamond said. The winners were selected from a computer-generated list of all paid-up tenants, and a blind selection was then made by two independent representatives with no relationship to the city s tenancy management department. The winners were from areas across the city, such as Mfuleni, Retreat, Uitsig, Kalksteenfontein, Adriaanse, Scottsdene, Hanover Park, Ravensmead, Bonteheuwel, Hout Bay, Langa, Mitchells Plain, Belhar, Macassar, Lavender Hill, and Strand. I am grateful to all the voucher recipients for their leadership in showing their loved ones and neighbours how to be model Capetonians. Your contribution helps us to provide a better quality of life for our tenants. I encourage you to brag about your achievement to everyone you deserve this recognition and celebration. Do spread the word and urge your fellow tenants to follow your example, Diamond said. African News Agency (ANA)