Eirene can build on her recent Listed success by striking Group 3 gold in the Bathwick Tyres Dick Poole Fillies&#8217; Stakes at Salisbury. Dean Ivory&#8217;s charge was not without her supporters at Newbury last month, but still went off at the generous odds of 10-1 as she registered an impressive near two-length triumph. She had previously finished second, when conceding 1kg at Nottingham, and the value of that form became all the clearer when winner Sands Of Mali claimed the Gimcrack at York. Crucially Eirene has turned in her best efforts to date with some cut in the ground and with conditions likely to be on the easier side that is a factor in her favour. While she triumphed over the minimum trip in Berkshire, Eirene won over 1200m at Doncaster earlier in the season so the trip holds no fears and she is well in on the official numbers, too. She looks a Jackpot banker in Race 5. The Balding family surely hold a special place in their hearts for former sprint sensation Lochsong and Rely On Me should be in the mix in the race named in that filly&#8217;s honour. Successful in one of her two juvenile outings last term, Rely On Me has taken a bit of time to get rolling this season, eventually hitting the target at the sixth time of asking. Having been tried over 1400m, Rely On Me appreciated the drop back to 1200m on the July course at Newmarket, winning a competitive enough heat in tidy style. Racing o a mark of 80 that day, the handicapper has since hiked her five points which is far from ideal, but Rely On Me should at least come into this event with her confidence riding high. David Menuisier has made a Royal Lodge entry for Nuits St Georges, so he really should be winning the Frank Murray Memorial EBF Novice Stakes if he is to feature at that kind of level. Sent o a 33-1 shot on his racecourse bow at Sandown last month, he was beaten only by an odds-on Godolphin horse and looked an animal of real potential. Notably green in the early exchanges, he kept on well as the penny finally dropped and should improve again for that experience. So Beloved can snap a losing run the stretches back to May 2016 in the 32Red. com EBF Stallions Conditions Stakes at Haydock. David O&#8217;Meara has opted for a step down in class in a bid to get back on track as the seven-year-old has been just missing the mark in Group events, most recently being beaten just over a length by Talaayeb at the Ebor meeting. So Beloved has upwards of 4kg in hand of all his rivals and it will be a let-down if he cannot regain the winning thread. Ennjaaz can step up on his debut second by winning the Wickham Engineering Maiden Stakes at Chelmsford. He was sent off the even-money favourite on his first outing but his inexperience cost him dearly and he should not make the same mistakes again. Press Association. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.