The i30 N, revealed to the public at the Frankfurt Motor Show in Germany, is Hyundai Motor s first high-performance car under the N line up. . Built on the New Generation i30, the i30 N has been developed from the ground up to deliver maximum driving pleasure in everyday life on the road, as well as on the track. N was born in Namyang, at Hyundai Motor s global R&amp;D Centre in Korea, and honed at the N rburgring, one of the most challenging race tracks in the world and home of Hyundai s Test Centre. The N logo symbolises a chicane, the ultimate corner where the i30 N has been tested thoroughly and has proven its ability. The i30 N is inspired by Hyundai Motorsport s experience in WRC since 2014. The Hyundai i30 N has been developed for no other purpose than to deliver maximum driving fun to our customers in an accessible high-performance package, says Albert Biermann, Executive Vice President Performance Development and High-Performance Vehicle Division. With the high-performance N models we will enhance our brand s appeal with emotional products that cater to the needs of people who love to have a smile on their face when they drive their car on a winding road and listen to the sound of the engine. That s why we measure high-performance in BPM, heart beats per minute instead of only RPM. The i30 N is Hyundai Motor s answer to emerging customer preferences towards uncompromising innovation and technology-driven performance. Due to be launched across Europe by the end of 2017, the All-New i30 N is made for people to experience a contented grin when driving a performance car. Part of the i30 range, the i30 N sports a unique character and coherent, timeless design including the Cascading Grille at the front, the new Hyundai signature, which is characterised by a downward tapering gesture inspired by the flow of molten steel. Focused on Fun to Drive The i30 N has been developed to make the driver s heart beat faster when he or she gets behind the wheel. Instead of focusing on pure numbers, Hyundai Motor has chosen to emphasise driving pleasure and the emotional impact on the driver s heartbeats per minute (BPM), rather than simply measuring revs per minute (RPM). When the driver hits the throttle and shifts through the gears, the Rev matching function supports smooth gear shifting, while the overboost function increases torque (+7%) and acceleration (+6-7%). . The feeling is enhanced by the car s emotional sound from the dual muffler exhaust featuring the variable exhaust valve system. The cockpit of the i30 N shows key performance parameters through the unique instrument cluster and the 8-inch free-floating screen s modes such as the G-Force meter for live tracking of the performance. The design is based on true high-performance vehicles and includes Hyundai s cascading grille at the front, aggressive-looking front and rear bumpers, and a new rear spoiler. According to the principle form follows function , the car design enhances aerodynamic and cooling performance. Its operation focuses on the pure connection between the car and the driver. The i30 N is built around the driver for maximum responsiveness, balanced performance and fun to drive. Corner rascal The i30 N loves corners. The N logo symbolises a chicane, the ultimate part of the track where the i30 N achieves maximum traction, precision and feeling. The powerful 2.0-litre turbocharged engine delivers up to 202 kW and 353 Nm torque (378 Nm with Overboost function). It offers direct response with a linear power development through the early responding turbo charger. It features front-wheel drive and a six-speed manual transmission. The i30 N s maximum grip is guaranteed by the 18-inch Michelin or 19-inch Pirelli high-performance Hyundai N tyres. The rack-mounted motor-driven power steering is very direct and offers high precision. The lowered body is rigid and in combination with the Electronic Controlled Suspension (ECS) reduces roll and enhances cornering speed, enabling the driver to adjust the dampers from comfort-oriented daily commuting to high-performance track-driving. The i30 N is aerodynamically designed to reduce lift to keep the body firmly on to the road when maximum traction is required. The N Corner Carving Differential enhances grip and delivers maximum power to the road. For the real enthusiasts the Electronic Stability Control (ESC) can be switched off completely for maximum freedom. In order to give the driver and passenger the maximum comfort, the exclusively developed N sport seats offer maximum stability and lateral support in all driving situations. Everyday sports car The i30 N is an everyday sports car, suitable for daily commuting in comfort on weekdays or for race track performance on the weekend. By offering a great variety of customisation options, the i30 N is a well-balanced hatchback, offering performance and practicality to create the best feeling for the driver. There are five drive modes, including Eco, Normal, Sport, N and N Custom settings, which can be selected by using two dedicated buttons on the steering wheel. . The different modes change the character of the car, adjusting the high-performance parameters of the engine, the dampers, Electronic Stability Control (ESC), N Corner Carving Differential, sound, steering and Rev matching. Additionally, the driver can select the Rev matching button on the steering wheel to increase the revs on the engine when shifting from a higher to a lower gear. Race track capability In the development of the vehicle, durability and racetrack performance were key elements. The i30 N has undergone 10 000 km of driving on the Nordschleife at the N rburgring circuit for durability testing. The car has also taken part twice in the world s toughest endurance test, the ADAC 24-hours race on the N rburgring. The i30 N s brakes have been developed to last with an extra cooling function through the air intakes on the front bumper. The Electronic Controlled Suspension (ECS) allows the driver to adjust the i30 N to best suit a race track s requirements. Launch Control helps to launch the car as easy as possible by controlling engine torque. The body s high rigidity is increased by the rear stiffness bar behind the rear seats. The car features a strong clutch that is built to last, while the precise six-speed manual transmission has short travel to enhance fast shifting. . The Hyundai i30 N is Hyundai Motor s first high-performance model under the N line up. The N stands for Namyang, Hyundai Motor s global R&amp;D Centre in Korea, where the idea was born, and for the N rburgring, home to Hyundai Motor s European Test Centre, where the N line-up was further developed and tested. The close connection between Namyang and N rburgring created the foundation for N, the goal being to deliver driving enjoyment. Symbolising a chicane, the N logo embodies this aspect an agile vehicle that is fun to drive and represents the ultimate driving experience on winding roads. Hyundai s high-performance concepts have been derived during the development of its World Rally Championship cars. That is why the WRC is considered to be the cradle of the N line up, thus for the i30 N. During the races, with the i20 WRC cars competing on roads of gravel, tarmac, snow and ice, the Hyundai Motor engineers identify further refinement and potential performance enhancements for the i30 N. Namyang R&amp;D Centre: Birthplace of the i30 N Opened in 1995 in Hwaseong, South Korea, and employing 13 000 researchers, the Namyang R&amp;D Center is the heart of Hyundai Motor s global R&amp;D network and the birthplace of the new i30 N. It consists of various centres for design and engineering, power train, performance and test driving, an aero-acoustic wind tunnel, and environmental R&amp;D. It is host to 34 roads, including a Belgian road, and a high-speed track that is 4,5 km long. In all, the site features a total road length of 70 km. The i30 N s great road holding is the result of months of testing the aerodynamics at Hyundai s Namyang Technology Research Centre in Korea and in the wind tunnel. Produced in Europe The i30 N will be produced at Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech in No ovice (HMMC). The factory opened in 2008 and started production of the first generation i30 the same year. It has an annual production capacity of 350,000 cars and fulfils the highest quality standards to meet European customers expectations. Each component used in the i30 N makes Hyundai Motor s first high-performance vehicle more agile and dynamic. This is what the Hyundai N line up stands for: The N-badged Hyundai focuses on taking the vehicle beyond its role of being just a means of transportation. It offers the customer the thrill and excitement of driving a high-performance car and becoming one with the car as it moves through corners at speed. Designed for performance The i30 N is focused on true performance features, while markedly enhancing the experience of those behind the wheel. It sports unique high-performance design elements such as aggressive-looking front and rear bumpers and a new rear spoiler, paired with the coherent, timeless design of the i30 range. According to the principle form follows function , designers worked closely with aerodynamic specialists to define the right ratio between the car s downforce, drag and aerodynamics to create the best possible driving experience. The resulting lowered body together with the newly designed aerodynamics give the car its sporty silhouette and strong stance, while enhancing road balance and race track capabilities. Exterior design The i30 N features an increased wheel arch with unique 18-inch wheels or unique 19-inch wheels, carrying the N logo. Compared to the five-door version, the i30 N is 4 mm lower with 18-inch wheels and 8 mm lower with 19-inch wheels. The N signature can also be found on the striking red brake callipers as well as on the Cascading Grille at the front. It denotes clearly where the model originates and increases the sense of high performance. At the front, the i30 N also maintains its sporty, aggressive appearance through the black bezel of the headlamps. At the rear, the triangular third brake light in the new glossy black spoiler and the double muffler exhaust underline the eye-catching look of the sports hatchback. As the front bumper features the prominent Cascading Grille, particularly stressed through the red insert, the emotional appearance and strong character of the car are once again highlighted. Fresh-air inlets on both sides of the car s front bumpers enhance the brake cooling and aerodynamics with the horizontal LED daytime running lights positioned on top. Behind the Cascading Grille, additional air curtains offer further performance by enhancing air flow, reducing turbulence in the wheel housing and cooling the engine more effectively. The front splitter and the rear wing spoiler create downforce and an excellent aero-balance. Interior design The interior is focused on connecting the driver with the car at all touch points. The concept is dedicated to the people who truly love cars. The exclusive N steering wheel ensures that the driver is in 100% control of all driving performance features directly by hand. On the left side of the steering wheel, drivers can select three standard drive modes: Normal, Sport and Eco. On the right, the driver has direct access to the chequered flag N button for the N-mode, or the customised setting which is visible on the navigation screen. For better engine control driving gear shifting, drivers can activate the Rev matching control system by using the dedicated rev button just above the N button. The steering wheel is manufactured with the N unique blue stitching and garnished with an N logo at the bottom. The gear shift also features a unique blue stripe as part of the coherent colour design. On top, the ball-type knob bears the N-badge. The electronic instrument cluster is specifically made for passionate drivers. The shift timing indicator positioned at the top centre of the cluster indicates when to shift gears for optimal race track driving performance. The red zone of the variable LED rev-counter changes according to the driving performance and varies with the engine s oil temperature. The i30 N features uniquely designed high-performance sport seats with power lumbar support. Extendable seat cushions further enhance stability and comfort for the driver and front passenger. Customers can choose from a combination of suede and leather or cloth. Both versions feature the outstanding, stamped N logo on the back rest. High-performance colour range Because of Hyundai Motor s motor sport heritage, the unique Performance Blue colouring was introduced with the start of its WRC engagement in 2014 and has represented the N line up ever since. The i30 N comes with the exclusive Performance Blue paint. Altogether, customers can choose from six different exterior colours. Besides Performance Blue, the range includes Clean Slate, Polar White, Micron Grey, Phantom Black and Engine Red. The special side sills enhancing the sporty character of the lowered body are painted in Black, while the outside mirrors come with a Glossy Black painting. As the handles are coloured in the same way as the body of the car, they fade in, creating a more dynamic look. High-quality interior materials and dark metal inserts underline the elegant character of the i30 N and its affiliation with the motor sport sector. Steering sytem The i30 N offers a new level of precision in its steering, delivering great value to the driver: its rack-mounted motor driven power steering system (R-MDPS) provides stability to the vehicle at high speeds and makes the car instantly responsive at lower speeds. The electric steering assist system located in the steering gear offers very high output and is designed even for track day driving with cup tires. N Power Sense Axle The i30 N s front axle benefits from an enhanced lateral stiffness and reduced weight compared to the five-door version. The N Power Sense axle sends fast and precise feedback from the front axle to the driver, improving grip and transferring engine power to the road effectively . Launch Control The i30 N s Launch Control controls engine torque when starting from the standstill, helping to launch the car like a professional race driver. Launch Control can be effectively used in N drive mode: with the off-switched Electronic Stability Control (ESC) and the clutch disengaged, the first gear can be engaged immediately by releasing the clutch pedal within five seconds after full throttle acceleration. Rev matching Rev matching automatically adjusts the revs on the engine when the driver shifts from a higher to a lower gear. Consequently, depending on the drive mode, it allows smoother or sportier downshifts. The Rev matching button can be switched on easily by hand as it is located on the right side of the steering wheel. Electronic Controlled Suspension (ECS) By controlling the damping force, ride and handling and stability are both enhanced. Depending on the driving conditions, from daily trips to circuit driving, the vehicle s performance can be adjusted. The use of a solenoid valve guarantees a precise and immediate damping force control. It allows the driver to influence the stiffness of the suspension with the push of a button. Electronic Stability Control (ESC) The Electronic Stability Control (ESC) system stabilises the vehicle during cornering manoeuvres. If desired, the ESC can be switched off completely for maximum race track feeling. N Corner Carving Differential (with Performance Package) The strong cornering ability of i30 N is achieved by different new performance features, such as the N Corner Carving Differential (Electronically Controlled Limited Slip Differential). This allows driven wheels to turn at different speeds by applying different amounts of torque depending on the load transfer from the inner to the outer front axle wheel. Wheel slip in specific conditions is reduced and understeering on cornering minimised. Electronic Sound Generator (ESG) To provide the inside of the i30 N with a real high-performance experience, a sporty engine sound is produced by the Electronic Sound Generator in the body panel. In the cabin, at the base of the windscreen,an engine sound generator which provides some extra acoustic drama to match the mood of the driver. Variable Exhaust Valve System (with Performance Package) Depending on the drive mode, the customer can select different exhaust sounds and thus manage to actively control the exhaust valve. The sound differs with the size of the valve opening. The twin-outlet active exhaust has several settings, allowing the car to increase the amount of exhaust sound from normal to decidedly powerful. Five different driving modes Drivers of the i30 N can choose from five individual drive modes in the N Grin Control System: Eco, Normal, Sport, N and N Custom settings, which can be activated by using the two dedicated buttons on the steering wheel. The different modes change the character of the car, adjusting the parameters of the engine, the dampers, Electronic Stability Control (ESC), N Corner Carving Differential, engine sound, steering and Rev matching. In the N Custom mode, drivers can select from Eco, Normal, Sport and Sport+ settings for each high-performance component to match driving preferences and road conditions. Powerful Performance Package The i30 N is powered by a 2.0-litre turbocharged engine available with two power outputs: the Standard Package engine delivers 184 kW (fuel consumption combined: 7,0 l/100 km; CO2 combined: 159 g/km), whereas the Performance Package engine&#8217;s maximum power is boosted to 202 kW (fuel consumption combined: 7,1 l/100 km; CO2 combined: 163 g/km). Both outputs deliver a maximum torque of 353 Nm and reach a maximum speed of 250 km/h. The overboost function, which is activated when reaching the maximum torque, further increases torque up to 378 Nm. The 184 kW version accelerates to 100 km/h in 6,4 seconds, the 202 kW version in 6,1 seconds. The engine offers direct response with a linear power development through the early responding turbo charger, and is available with front-wheel drive and a six-speed manual transmission. The power is transferred independently to the gear train, in order to always be ready to shift to the next gear without any torque interruption. When fitted with the Performance Package, the i30 N exclusively comes with 19-inch Pirelli P-Zero high-performance Hyundai N tyres, distinctive red N break calipers and larger brake discs (18-inch at the front, 17-inch at the rear). The N Corner Carving Differential and Variable Exhaust Valve System are additional features included in the Performance Package to provide the optimal race track experience. The i30 N driving modes can be displayed on the 5.0-inch or the optional 8.0-inch touch screen with navigation, featuring information on PS, torque, turbo boost as well as a lap and acceleration timer. The specific N mode screen menu also offers customisable settings for the engine, suspension, steering, differential (in the Performance Package), transmission Rev matching, exhaust sound and stability control. Class-leading safety package The Forward Collision-Avoidance Assist (FCA) fitted in the i30 N operates in three stages using camera sensors. First, it warns the driver visually and audibly. In a second step, it controls the brakes according to the collision danger stage, and in a third stage applies maximum braking force to avoid a collision or minimise damage if a collision is unavoidable. The Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) senses the car s position and alerts the driver about unsafe movements at speeds over 60 km/h. By audibly and visually warning the driver before inducing corrective steering, it guides the driver back to a safe position. Road speed signs are immediately recognised by the Intelligent Speed Limit Warning (ISLW), which displays the speed limit in real time. The navigation system display and the TFT cluster both show the information. A High Beam Assist (HBA) detects both oncoming vehicles and vehicles in the same lane ahead at night and changes to low-beam lights as appropriate, thereby reducing blinding effects on other drivers. HBA automatically re-activates the high beams and therefore maximises the driver s range of vision as soon as no vehicles are detected.