Today as Woman desk, we want to share with you an interesting conversation between men and women on who should be responsible for protection use in a relationship. Majority are of the view that when it comes to condoms, women leave it to men. How true is this? Well read the story to find out. In the neighbouring nation of Uganda, condoms are sold openly and people are not afraid to pick them. Women also buy them and stash them in their handbags.  But in a conservative society like ours, people could scorn at a woman picking condoms openly, right? Here is what I think, your safety is your responsibility. Anybody thinking of engaging in an intimate relationship should buy condom and it should not be left for the men to decide at their own whim. You should protect yourself from Sexually Transmitted Diseases. I believe that it is better to be safe than sorry when it comes to this issue and women should not be stigmatised when they buy condoms. I mean why should people be afraid to buy condoms? Even men are afraid to buy condoms in the supermarket fearing scorn from other buyers. Why should condom be bought in whisper? It  is a contraceptive against pregnancy for those who want to plan their families  so why should one be afraid. It also protects from STDs including HIV/Aids so why would you please everyone else and compromise on your health. I know there are people out there who would slut-shame women who openly buy condoms and it is not right because if they don’t they may end up with unplanned pregnancies or diseases which they will regret in their lifetime. It is time as a society, we revisit that conversation about condoms. And women should know that taking control of one’s sexual health is an empowering action that one should be proud of. Nobody should convince you that using or carrying a condom equates to promiscuity. So let everyone take charge of their sexual and reproductive health using condoms since it is a non intrusive method and is also convenient according to several studies.  