One of Mpumalanga ANC provincial chairperson David Mabuza’s front men, Speedy Mashilo, is under pressure from some branches to step down because he allegedly does not qualify to serve as ANC Ekangala regional chairperson as he is supposedly from Gauteng.
The branches claimed that Mashilo, who is also Mpumalanga MEC for human settlements, is a resident of Bronkhorstspruit, which falls under Gauteng, and he therefore should not be a leader of their region. They questioned how he was even appointed as an MEC in the province when he did not qualify.
However, Mashilo countered by dismissing the allegations. While he did not deny that he lived in Bronkhorstspruit, Mashilo described the allegations as “news to me”.
“We just came from a regional conference in June and I was uncontested in the ANC elections,” he said.
The MEC said he owned property and lived at Sun City C section in Thembisile Hani, another in Bronkhorstspruit and resides in Nelspruit between Monday and Friday.
“This has something to do with cheap politics,” Mashilo said. He associated the claims with his regional politics and those who wanted to see his political downfall.
He also dismissed suggestions that some in the provincial leadership were behind the allegations.
“I don’t think it’s at provincial level. As the PEC (provincial executive committee) we are coherent that we are for unity, as the REC (regional executive committee), we resolved to support the PEC on the issue of unity of the ANC,” Mashilo said.
The claim came as Mpumalanga structures were beginning to pronounce on their preferences for the candidate to succeed President Jacob Zuma in the ANC presidency. At the weekend Steve Tshwete region announced Cyril Ramaphosa as its preference.
Other regions are yet to make their preferences public. However, it is understood that many regional leaders are wary of coming out about their choices on the matter as they fear offending Mabuza.
Mabuza has opted for unity of the ANC and shied away from slates. He chose neither of the main candidates, Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, and has roped in four other provinces – Gauteng, Free State, North West and KwaZulu-Natal behind his unity idea.
But it is understood that there has been no coherence on the issue even among the five provinces as some still stuck to their original slates when they got home.
KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and North West are known to support Dlamini-Zuma, and Gauteng favours Ramaphosa while Mpumalanga itself is unclear, hence it was preaching unity.
– ericn@citizen.co.za