Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi on Friday denounced acts of violence, torching of operators vehicles and intimidation between the Meter Taxi Operators and the E-Hailing Partners Uber, Taxify and Zebracabs. Two uber taxis were torched in Sandton, Johannesburg, on Thursday night. Uber drivers then got together and retaliated. They confronted metered taxi drivers in the streets. Some reports said the clashes left the streets resembling a war zone. Commenting on the mayhem, Maswanganyi denounced the violence and reminded all operators of the agreement between themselves and government that the National Land Transport Act of 2009 (NLTA) makes provision for the regulation of road-based public transport. It forms the basis to resolve the challenges confronting the industry. During the meeting, all parties agreed to uphold and act within the provisions of the act. Section 50 of the NLTA states that: No person may operate a road-based public transport service, unless he or she is the holder of a legal operating license or a permit. The transport minister said: This means that anyone who operates a public transport service for reward without an Operating License will be violating the law. He said an operating licence is only issued on application made in terms of the NLTA by the National Public Transport Regulator, a provincial regulatory entity or a municipality to which the operating licence function has been assigned, as the case may be, after considering all the factors. The minister said an operating licence may only be issued to and held by the person registered, in terms of the National Road Traffic Act, as the owner or operator of the vehicle, as defined in the Act, and specified in the operating licence. What should also be considered by all the operators is that the Act makes provision that all the vehicles that provide road-based public transport must have signage that identifies them as a provider of public transport service. This is also a requirement that is provided in the NLTA, Maswanganyi said. To ensure a safe environment for both the public and public transport operators, the minister said law enforcement agencies will monitor identified hotspots to prevent any acts of intimidation and violence. Perpetrators of violence and intimidation will be immediately dealt with in terms of the applicable laws. We call upon members of the public to be vigilant and report any acts of lawlessness, perceived or real, to the nearest Police Station or to report such incidences by calling the 0860010111 number, said Maswanganyi. The minister said he will continuously engage with the Meter Taxi Association and E-Hailing Services which includes in order to bring stability to the industry.