The Cayenne is Porsche s most successful model range in South Africa, and I think if you look at the basic recipe, SUV space and versatility, Porsche styling mixed with Porsche dynamics and performance, it s not difficult to understand why. . And it was off to Stuttgart, the home of Porsche, for the world premiere of the all-new third generation Cayenne that will be finding its way to our country in June next year, along with local pricing. But our first drive and subsequent driving impression will happen before the end of this year, when we get to experience the SUV s at its official launch. So, from here on is all the good stuff Porsche told us about the all-new Cayenne. The Cayenne is a completely new development, and is said to combine typical Porsche performance with excellent everyday practicality. Powerful turbo engines, a new eightspeed Tiptronic S gearbox and new chassis systems, alongside innovative display and control concept with increased connectivity take both sportiness and comfort to a next level. Based on the iconic 911 sports car, the brand s SUV has been enhanced visually and features mixed tyres, as well as rear-axle steering for the first time. On-road capabilities of the model are also further improved thanks to active all-wheel drive as standard, Porsche 4D Chassis Control, three-chamber air suspension and the Porsche Dynamic Chassis Control (PDCC) electronic roll stabilisation system. Despite its significantly extended range of equipment, the Cayenne S weighs up to 65 kilograms less than its predecessor and remains perfectly suited to off-road use. Cayenne and Cayenne S market launch . The new Cayenne will be launching in two variants: Firstly, the Cayenne with a 3.0-litre six-cylinder turbo engine delivers 250kW of power, as well as developing 450Nm of torque. This is said to get the SUV to 100 km/h in 6.2 seconds (5.9 seconds with the Sport Chrono Package) and a top speed of 245km/h. The second model to launch is the Cayenne S. Driven by a newly developed 2.9-litre V6 engine with twin turbocharging, this model delivers 324Kw and 550Nm of torque and is claimed to get from 0-100 km/h in just 5.2 seconds (4.9 seconds with Sport Chrono Package) and has a maximum speed of 265km/h. On road and off road . The Cayenne s expanded range of improved performance and comfort is due in no small part to the new eight-speed Tiptronic S gearbox. Shorter response times and sportier ratios in the lower gears enhance both on-road performance and off-road capability. At the other end of the spectrum, the long-transmission eighth gear ensures low torques, optimised fuel consumption and relaxed driving. On rough terrain, off-road modes make it easy for the driver to select the right setup for their journey. The SUV s default setting is the On Road programme, however, four other modes activate the conditioning for mild off-road terrain: Mud, Gravel, Sand or Rocks. The drive, chassis and differential locks can be selected to adapt to the relevant scenario. For power distribution, Porsche utilises the active all-wheel drive in all Cayenne models. The intelligent, fully variable Porsche Traction Management (PTM) distributes the driving force between the drive axles. Its hang-on concept is a key principle for the excellent sporting performance of the Cayenne. At the same time, it fulfils all requirements for extensive traction on non-tarmac terrain. Lightweight chassis with mixed tyres . The new Cayenne combines three chassis concepts in one new design: sports car, off-roader and touring car. To achieve this, Porsche developed a new lightweight chassis base, with a front axle featuring a separated link design and a multi-link rear axle. Mixed tyres which are now on wheels of at least 19 inches, are a characteristic sports car feature applied to the new models improving stability and driving dynamics on bends. Rear-axle steering, air suspension, roll stabilisation Providing the optimal basis for the active chassis systems, which are analysed and synchronised is the integrated Porsche 4D Chassis Control system. The system works in real time, optimising handling even further. With the exception of the active PASM damper system, all other chassis systems are new developments. For the first time, the Cayenne is available with electric rear-axle steering a system tried and tested both in the 911 and the Panamera improving agility on bends and stability when changing lanes at high speeds. The reduced turning circle also makes every day handling of the SUV easier. The adaptive air suspension with new three-chamber technology significantly increases the spread between a sporty, firm connection and the driving comfort expected of a touring car. Just as before, the system enables adjustments to the ground clearance on rough terrain. With the Porsche Dynamic Chassis Control (PDCC) roll stabilisation, sporty drivers benefit by changing from a hydraulic to an electric system. Surface coated brake with tungsten-carbide layer . With its innovative Porsche Surface Coated Brake (PSCB), the sports car manufacturer is once again assuming a pioneering role in the development of high-performance brakes. A world first, it will be available for all Cayenne models and consists of a cast-iron disc with a tungsten-carbide coating. This finish increases the friction values, whilst reducing brake dust and wear. Exclusive to Porsche, the brakes are also visually impressive, with callipers painted in white, while the surface of the discs develops a unique gloss level after bedding-in. The PSCB is only available in combination with the 20-inch or 21-inch wheels, meanwhile PCCB ceramic brakes remain the top system in the range. New Sport Chrono Package with PSM Sport The new Cayenne offers even more potential when it comes to sporty performance. Porsche has redeveloped the Sport Chrono Package based on the model of the sports car, with the mode button on the steering wheel, a clear indicator of this approach. As well as the Normal, Sport and Sport Plus driving modes, the driver can select an individually configurable mode. Porsche Advanced Cockpit and new PCM With this new generation, the Cayenne is writing the next chapter in the relationship between driver and vehicle. The Porsche Advanced Cockpit is fully integrated into the sporty, luxurious atmosphere. At the heart of the new display and control concept is a 12.3-inch full-HD touchscreen from the latest generation of Porsche Communication Management (PCM), launched last year with the new Panamera.