Trainer Paul Peter is in hot form with 12 wins from his 66 runners so far this season and he could provide punters with a ready made banker in the form of Alssakhra in Race 4 on the Turffontein Standside track today. This Seventh Rock colt has promising form, having finished second in his last two of three starts. The first of those was over 1600m on the Inside track where he over-raced and was allowed to lead, a position he maintained until being overhauled by Wonderous Climber close home. The same front-running tactics were used over the same distance on the Standside track last time out when he failed by only 0.80 lengths to hold on from Silver God. The form of that race has been well franked and, over that course and distance again, he should open his account, particularly with Gavin Lerena in the irons this time. King s County might be second best trying 1600m for the first time. This Mike de Kock-trained gelding needed the run over 1160m last time out and looks sure to make a lot of improvement. Dancing Rebel and Tapenzee could also finish in the frame. The richest race at the meeting is the R112,000 The Grand Heritage 30 September Progress Plate over 1160m and Play The Night is the one to beat. The Sean Tarry-trained colt has run only three times and was not beaten far in the Listed Gatecrasher Stakes over 1400m at Greyville last time out after trying to make all the running. He tired late to finish 3.60 lengths behind Trojan Harbour in a race that also included subsequent winners Boyra (1.50 lengths ahead) and Sea King (1.50 lengths behind). He has not raced since that 10 June outing but won following a similar break second time out and should return fit enough to do himself justice. He looks a banker for BiPots, Place Accumulators and Quartets, with Joey Piper fancied for second. Nor West Arch was fancied to win her debut over 1600m at the Vaal in July, but lost her jockey, Lyle Hewitson, at the start. She has been give time to get over that fright and tries again in Race 5 over 1600m, this time with Piere Strydom in the irons. She meets a field that, although small, is fairly strong and could start at a value price. Diva Faustina hails from the David Nieuwenhuizen yard that scored a double last Saturday and should enjoy this distance, which she tries for the first time. Kings Creek looks likely to start favourite and is overdue her first career win, but she is making her 26th attempt at winning a Maiden Plate and has limitations. The form of Boudica s last race is fairly strong and she must be considered, also trying further for the first time. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.