An attempt by acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane to prevent forensic consultant Paul O Sullivan from being involved in a criminal investigation against him and make the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) toe the line has backfired spectacularly. It s resulted in Ipid spilling all the beans about Phahlane s apparent corruption and calls for him to step down while the allegations are investigated. Phahlane had welcomed the investigation against him into allegations of defeating the ends of justice and corruption. As for the involvement of O Sullivan, not so much. It led to him instituting court action against Ipid, O Sullivan, his legal adviser Sarah Jane Trent and Pretoria magistrate JR Tsatsi, who issued the search warrant for Phahlane s home. David Lewis of Corruption Watch said: Based on the allegations made, provided the evidence supports those allegations, I think there is no way he [Phahlane] should still be in office while the investigation continues. The commissioner disposes of enormous power and almost a unique ability to interfere in this investigation. He should be suspended or voluntarily leave office pending the outcome of this investigation. In Ipid s answering affidavit, Ipid investigator Mandlakayise Mahlangu noted he had received death threats and was worried about how Phahlane appeared to be interfering in the investigation. The first alleged death threat was from a phone linked to a police official working at OR Tambo International Airport. The second alleged death threat, on February 19, went through a handset which had received reception from 3G_SAPS_INTEL_HQ_MN1_NGA tower . The sender of the second threat also referred to himself/herself as a cousin of someone we were investigating, Mahlangu wrote. Phahlane was the only person he was investigating. Head of the centre for risk analysis at the Institute for Race Relations Kerwin Lebone agreed Phahlane should be on special leave for the duration of the case and investigation. Particularly in light of serious allegations of death threats made against the investigating officer and his colleagues, as well as interference with witnesses, he said. Mahlangu also in his affidavit questioned the R710 000 allegedly paid in cash instalments from the boot of Phahlane s car to a contractor, as well as cash payments to other contractors, noting the acquisition of the stand and the building of the house by Phahlane and his wife do not correlate with the amounts earned from their official sources of income . If Phahlane loses this case, it would mean the systems of appointing him have collapsed and need urgent review or even a complete overhaul, such as an independent professional body to vet nominated appointees, said Lebone. Death threat message to Ipid investigator: HELLO CHIEF. This is a warning to u. we r aware that u working fo a big foreign spy paul salivan who is funded by his masters. this man is in cahoot with Robert. lot of junior policeman, the police comm and lot of senior policeman who r paid by him with money frm uk kindom. unfortunately u became part of them. u must stop now. we know where u stay and ur family. Paul is a stupid old man. his days r numbered. u must either choose to die with him. we r watching you boy. we r about to finish paul. we have everythin on him frm his family in uk. he is a foreigner. Robert is nt clever. tel him to leave this spy. i wil c if u r listenin. im not going to warn u again. &#8211; Verbatim death threat to Ipid investigator. Questions surround Phahlane&#8217;s &#8216;cash payments&#8217; from car boot For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.