Breast cancer in Tanzania is not what it was some years back.Survival rates are now increasing compared to 20 years ago, thanks to greater breast cancer awareness campaigns, more early detection, and advances in treatments.Without these initiatives, most cases of the malignancy would have gone undetected. Why?Like any other type of cancer, breast cancer often begins silently , that is, without showing symptoms. But at a later stage, a woman may notice something wrong when a doctor checks her and finds a painless lump in her breast.There may also be changes in her breast size or shape, swelling in the armpit, nipple changes or discharge. Breast pain can also be a symptom of the cancer but it is not common.The breast skin may also become thick, red, and look pitted, like an orange peel. The area on the skin might also feel warm or tender and have small bumps that look like a rash.The earlier these signs are detected, the easier it becomes to treat it. The most obvious risk for breast cancer is being a woman. Men get the disease too, but it is 100 times more common in women. Diagnostics such as Mammograms or an x-ray of the breast can show the tumors before they get large enough to be felt.The Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) says that women at risk should get a yearly screening mammogram beginning at age 45.After that, a woman should get a mammogram every two years from age 50 to 74 and not to stop anyway but make it her culture to frequently seek medical examination.The doctor may also order an extra test that can take pictures of the inside of the body. A breast ultrasound can help find cysts, fluid-filled sucs that are not cancerous. Then, the women might get an MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) along with a mammogram as a part of her routine testing if she is at a higher risk of breast cancer.However, for many years, doctors told women to check their own breasts at least once a month. This is what we call self-exams. Studies suggest that these exams play a very little role in detecting cancer compared to other testing methods.The current thinking is that, it s more important for women to understand the structures and nature of their breasts.Just in case she finds a lump, she should not panic. 80 percent of breast lumps are not cancerous. They often turn out to be harmless cysts or tissue changes related to menstrual cycles. But the doctor can help to tell right away if there is anything unusual in the breast.If it s cancer, the earlier is found, the better. And if it s not, testing can give the woman peace of mind.The only sure way to know a lump is a cancer is to examine the tissue of the breast through ha microscope by taking what we call a biopsy.This means removing a sample of the lump so it can be examined in the lab.The doctor may be able to do this with a small needle. But surgery may be performed to take part of or the entire lump for testing. The results will show whether it s cancer, and if so, what type. There are several forms of breast cancer, and treatments are carefully matched to each type.Some types of breast cancer are fuelled by hormones known as estrogen or progesterone.There is no doubt that cancer is a life changing experience. The treatments can wear the person out.