Knysna residents joined thousands of South Africans in the anti-Zuma march to express their grievances against the president, reports the Knysna-Plett Herald. The march took place at Memorial Square on Friday and saw residents raising their placards with their complaints. Some even wore t-shirts, that read, &#8220;No Confidence In Zuma&#8221; and &#8220;Gatvol Of Zuma&#8221;. The main street market, opposite Memorial Square, was closed as Main Street and the square became alive with music. Shouting and hooting from motorists and bikers encouraged the crowd as they drove past. Barry Richards, a South African cricket legend was among the masses. Richards was asked whether he thought the march will have the desired effect that Zuma will step down and he said, If we don t try, we ll never know. It might not work today but this is the beginning. We re standing up for poorer citizens because if we don t stand up for them they are the ones who will be mostly affected by Zuma s actions. The masses then walked around the square and then down the main road. In Plettenberg Bay, more than a thousand residents and visitors gathered in the coastal holiday town&#8217;s Main Street at 12pm to stand in solidarity with the rest of the country to voice their unhappiness with president Jacob Zuma, the Knysna-Plett Herald further reported. The crowd not only chanted &#8220;Zuma must fall&#8221; in unison but also stood together, holding hands and singing the national anthem. Down with Zuma and Zuma must go were the resounding calls of about 150 to 200 residents of Sedgefield during protest action on Friday, the Knysna-Plett Herald reported. The residents gathered alongside the N2, at the traffic lights, with banners, drums, vuvuzelas and their voices, making themselves heard. Trucks and cars hooted in appreciation for the signs. Some signs had quite a clear message with others were quirky, like the sign of Brian Hart, which read: Zuma, retire in CX . Just imagine all the money he ll bring here, Hart joked. If we can persuade him to move here, he might learn some manners, he added. Lisa Snow, the event organiser, couldn t emphasise enough how important the day was and how proud she was of the Sedge community. We are all joined here with an immence sense of solidarity and I am so proud of our small community. From a granny blowing her vuvuzela, to our everyday vagrants that beg for change everyone has gathered in support, she said. Agnes Voorslag, a resident of Smuttsville, said she is protesting due to her unhappiness about the state SA is in. One of these days we ll also have to push around wheelbarrows full of money to buy a loaf of bread. Our president and Cabinet should resign, she said. Meanwhile, the community of George showed their support for the #ZumaMustFall campaign when a large group of people gathered just before 11am on Friday at Unity Park, at the top end of York Street, the George Herald reports. Grandparents, parents with young children, politicians, community leaders and representatives from local businesses came dressed in black, with anti-Zuma placards and sign posts. A mascot and octopus-puppet were also spotted. Emotions ran high when the crowd started to sing the National Anthem at 10.55am. Everyone was in good spirits and the atmosphere was quite festive as the crowd dispersed shortly after 11am. Knysna residents join thousands of South Africans in the anti-Zuma march. Picture: Nwabisa Pondoyi The crowd not only chanted &#8220;Zuma must fall&#8221; in unison but also stood together, holding hands and singing the national anthem. Picture: Yoland Stander. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.