Ford is expanding its Ranger line-up with the addition of a limited Edition Fx4 model. . Derived from Ford F-Series pick-ups in the United States, the Ranger Fx4 is based on the segment-defining 3.2-litre XLT Double Cab 4&#215;4, and introduces an array of styling enhancements. The Ranger Fx4 fills a unique space in our current line-up as it offers our valued Ranger customers a vehicle that has been personalised as part of our standard manufacturing process, but introduces an entirely new level of exclusivity and appeal, says Tracey Delate, general manager, marketing at the Ford Motor Company sub-Saharan Africa region. This is an exciting special addition to the Ranger line-up that has its own distinct personality, and was designed to be unique in a cluttered marketplace, Delate adds. There s a strong demand for accessorising and customising the standard Ranger among enthusiast customers, and the Ranger Fx4 fills that niche superbly, while maintaining the exceptional capabilities of the XLT model. . The Ranger Fx4 incorporates a number of distinctive styling changes, including attractive black finishes for the radiator grille, fog lamp bezels, exterior mirrors, roof rails, as well as the door and tailgate handles. The 17-inch alloy wheels are supplied in an eye-catching Panther Black finish. The same colour is adopted for the side steps, rear bumper and special Fx4 tubular sports bar located in the load bay the latter protected by a fitted bedliner. To round off the design, unique Fx4 decals are applied on the sides and rear tailgate. The Ranger Fx4 is exclusively available in four colour choices: Frozen White, Moondust Silver, Sea Grey and Panther Black. The limited-edition Ranger Fx4 is only available on 4&#215;4 derivatives. It can be ordered with the six-speed manual or automatic transmission options. The Fx4 features the latest-generation SYNC 3 with Navigation infotainment system. This incorporates all the benefits of the innovative SYNC 3 system introduced last year, with the addition of a comprehensive suite of integrated navigation functions accessible via the 8-inch touch screen and a wide range of voice commands. Ford Ranger Fx4 3.2 TDCi Double Cab 6MT 4&#215;4 R593 900 Ford Ranger Fx4 3.2 TDCi Double Cab 6AT 4&#215;4 R608 900 All models come standard with Ford Protect, including a four-year/120 000km comprehensive warranty, five-year/100 000km service plan, three-year/unlimited km roadside assistance and five-year/unlimited km corrosion warranty. Service intervals are every 20 000km, with free 4&#215;4 training provided with the purchase of any Ranger 4&#215;4 model.