The latest resignation by former minister of public service and administration Ngoako Ramatlhodi from parliament as an ANC MP and those of three other axed ministers indicates they are not interested in representing the ANC under President Jacob Zuma any more, a prominent political expert says. Ramatlhodi s resignation follows those of former transport minister Dipuo Peters, former energy minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson and former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas, who quit parliament within days of being axed as ministers in Zuma s recent major Cabinet reshuffle. Political analyst Steven Friedman on Wednesday said the resignations were expected, as the former ministers did not belong to the Zuma faction within the ANC. ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said in a statement that Ramatlhodi s resignation was effective as of March 31 the same date as the other three. Comrade Ramatlhodi has served as minister and MP with absolute distinction and dedication. We are confident that he will continue serving the movement in other capacities in future, Mthembu added. Ramatlhodi had become critical of the way the state was run under Zuma s watch. The former minister told the media recently he was one of the most outspoken ANC cadres during the ANC s Polokwane conference in December 2007, backing Zuma as party leader and supporting the ousting of then president Thabo Mbeki. Ramatlhodi reportedly told the Sunday Times he did not regret voting Zuma into power, but he said Zuma s recent Cabinet reshuffle was motivated by an attempt to influence the upcoming end-of-year ANC conference. According to Friedman, another factor at play in the resignations was the MPs fear that the upcoming vote of no confidence in Zuma would not succeed, as ANC MPs are not likely to support it. I don t think there is going to be a serious attempt by the ANC caucus to support the no-confidence vote. I really doubt that they would vote with the opposition, he said. As a result, Ramatlhodi, Jonas, Peters and Joemat-Pettersson saw no need to stay, said Friedman. They see no need to represent the ANC after what happened to them. They want to get out of the way and not participate in the vote of no confidence. He said these politicians would want to fight for the ANC in a different way and not like to be seen as siding with the opposition. Ramatlhodi, who is also an advocate, served as Limpopo premier under the Nelson Mandela government and worked closely with late ANC president Oliver Tambo in exile. Former minister Ramatlhodi quits as MP For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.