The Black First Land First (BLF) movement on Thursday urged South Africans not to be misled by the racist agenda of opposition parties who wanted to shut down the country. This comes after civil society and political parties announced that they would march to the Union Buildings from Church Square in Pretoria on Friday, to call for President Jacob Zuma s resignation, following his Cabinet reshuffle, during which he axed ministers including former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. The call to shutdown is a plan hatched from London by the same agents of imperialism who want blacks to remain poor and landless in their own country, BLF national spokesperson Zanele Lwana said speaking at a press briefing at Gandhi Square in Johannesburg on Thursday. Pravin Gordhan had to be recalled form London. [Democratic Alliance leader] Mmusi Maimane was also in London recently and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have a direct relationship with [former diplomat and now crossbench member of the House of Lords] Lord Robin Renwick. Lwana said the opposition parties had failed in their use of the mechanisms available to them, and if they felt that Zuma acted wrongly or unlawfully when he reshuffled Cabinet they should go to court. The court has already ruled against them, alternatively they could go to parliament but again their motion to recall the President previously failed. Now they want to use violence to get what they want. BLF national spokesperson Lindsay Maasdorp said: White people cannot tell us how to save South Africa. The Save South Africa campaign is a programme of racist whites who don t want to share the wealth of the country with black people. We call on our people to reject the shit on Friday. Maasdorp said the shutdown was an attempt by the ratings agencies, the opposition parties and some African National Congress (ANC) leaders who were bought by white capital to instigate black on black violence and create social crises to remove the president and replace him with a &#8220;London stooge&#8221; such as Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. African News Agency Cosatu warns members not to join Save SA anti-Zuma march For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.