There are not many Tanzanian players in Europe s elite leagues yet we can t stop talking about European football.The stories are just as bizarre as those memories of our exploits during those weekends and sometimes weekdays when these teams play.The stories of guys who reached home without knowing the score line makes it to the Top 10.But even with the Champions League final still weeks away, there are men who are using this tournament as an excuse to stay away.On many occasions they are not well informed as some still talk of Barca winning the tournament.On this afternoon I wanted to get to my favourite stop early especially with the fact that Kiteu was on leave so we could catch up some of his fresh gossip.He always has funny stories about his nefarious exploits which always leaves revellers in fits of laughter. I just couldn t wait to meet him.The one-hour ride that followed left me very exhausted , I had to cool off the day s steam.There were all sorts of fellows debating passionately on the ongoing parliamentary session; it was at this point that I wondered why all these men were here and not at their homes.I am not a womaniser, but to be honest, I was relieved to see her.Maria has all of those features that any man would die for; curvy hips with a complexion that is hard to imagine, I felt like touching her.A part from her physical appearance, Maria can also be very friendly at times.Maria is what a man needs at times like these, when everything doesn t seem to add up and not the ever nagging Mama watoto who has now become a specialist in currency forecasts. This money is becoming useless, she would say to justify her ever swelling budget.These bar maids provide comfort to men seeking refuge from their wives and hostile employers.The word comfort might sound ambiguous but here; I mean just friendly chat, a pat on the back.I know some guys who elevate such exchanges but that is what happens wherever men and women meet in any society.Lately, Maria has been in a chatty mood, Unajua this barmaid job has a very bad reputation, most people think we are prostitutes, she said.I asked her to be a bit honest and tell the truth. No, no, we are not prostitutes. The problem is the pay is so poor that some of engage in casual sex to make ends meet. I mean that s normal, even nurses and secretaries do that. No, no, I protested. We all work hard. I mean you also said women had that extra advantage. It is at this point when Kiteu arrived with Zakia in tow, the two were like adolescents who had just fallen in love and I couldn t blame my friend.My dear, the traffic officer made Maria look very ordinary she was like beauty that had just dropped from heaven.As they always say to be a true competitor you have to know your potential and at that point I saw Maria sizing up her options because of her past with Kiteu.She even moved closer to me something she had never done before and at this point I sensed that we were now about mix business with some pleasure.I might be wrong, unlike Mama Watoto, the way Maria stroked my hands made me feel half my age something she rarely does.Suddenly my sixth sense told me to look up. There stood Mama Watoto with the most evil of stares that I had ever seen on her.What followed could be any one s guess. And as we speak today, Maria doesn t speak to me.