The funeral of 18 school pupils and two men who died when a minibus taxi collided with a truck near Bronkhorstspruit on Friday might not be held next weekend because only one body has so far been identified. All bodies have been accounted for but the information we have found is that only one body could be identified, Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said on Sunday. The first task we need to attend to is the DNA test. This process will last for a week. We will get the results after a week and be in a position to go further, he said. Lesufi was speaking during a gathering at a community hall in Verena in Mpumalanga. The gathering was attended by, among others, family members of those who died in the crash and Mpumalanga government officials. The officials included Mpumalanga human settlements MEC Speedy Mashilo, his education counterpart Reginah Mhaule, and Thembisile Hani local municipality mayor Nomsa Mtsweni. Basic Education Minister Angie Motsekga was also expected to attend, but did not arrive. Friday s crash occurred on the R25 near Bronkhorstspruit on the border of Gauteng and Mpumalanga when the minibus taxi collided with a truck. The minibus burst into flame and some of the occupants burnt inside the vehicle. A total of 18 pupils, the driver of the minibus, and another adult man, died. Seven other pupils and the driver of the truck were injured. The pupils were travelling to their homes in Wolvenkop and Verena from Refano Primary School and Mhlenga Secondary School near Bronkhorstspruit. Lesufi said a funeral committee had been set up and would visit the affected families and obtain items that could be used in the DNA tests. The committee comprised of, among others, representatives of the Gauteng and Mpumalanga governments. The two governments would share support and resources in preparing for the funeral. Lesufi said they would also provide various forms of support to the surviving pupils, such as future medical costs, counseling, and school books to replace those lost in the crash. Because this [DNA] process is private we have been assured that each and every family will be visited and get [an] explanation on what is needed. We are going to share the resources and ensure that all the families are treated equally. We want to assure you, as families, that we share the grief with you, he said. The funeral committee would decide with the families on whether the victims would be buried in a mass funeral or separately. Family members were given an opportunity to ask questions to get clarity if they needed to. A man from the audience, who identified himself as Mbuso Mahlangu, went to the podium and complained to Lesufi and other government leaders about what he called many potholes on the very same road where the accident happened. He asked them to explain which road they used when they travelled to Verena and whether they saw those potholes. There are many potholes on that road. I am saying that road is bad, said Mahlangu. Mpumalanga community safety MEC Pat Ngomane, who was the programme director, told Mahlangu his question was noted. Also read: 20 learners die in minibus accident African News Agency (ANA)