There is a parallel government operating outside the current leadership of the country that is trying to destroy the ruling ANC to govern South Africa, says President Jacob Zuma. Speaking at the commemoration of the Musa Dladla Region freedom fighters in Empangeni at the weekend, Zuma claimed there was an external force attempting to divide and conquer the movement , EWN reports. He said unity within the governing party was now more crucial as the enemy was using a different strategy to control the country. Because I know things, let me tell you, there are outside governments who want to control South Africa. In their discussions, they even say if you want to control South Africa, you need to control the ANC. If you want to control the ANC, you need to have a leader that you will control, Zuma was quoted as saying. He also questioned why so many members of the ANC were being touted as his possible successors. Where have you ever seen a situation where all of us want to become president? Money in bags and envelopes has become big Speaking at the SACP s Chris Hani Memorial Lecture in KwaNobuhle, Uitenhage, at the weekend, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa criticised Zuma and his controversial friends, the Gupta family, during his address. Ramaphosa said while there were those within the alliance who said the ANC was in a deep crisis, some may want to contest the use of words such as crisis and rot to describe the current situation. The undeniable reality is that the democratic movement is undergoing a period of greater turbulence and uncertainty than at any time since 1994, he said. He also said he supported the establishment of a judicial commission of inquiry to probe allegations of state capture by the Guptas while urging the ANC to support the inquiry. It is possibly the only process that will be able to get to bottom of these allegations and determine the truthfulness or lack thereof. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa: &#8216;Money in bags and envelopes has become big&#8217; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.