The United National Transport Union (Untu) on Wednesday asked its members to embark on an indefinite national strike, saying it had no other option after the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) refused to increase its final wage offer of six percent. This comes after the Commissioner at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) issued a certificate of non-resolution on Wednesday afternoon between the two parties as Prasa management came back to the conciliation without a new mandate. The CCMA gave Prasa two weeks to get a new mandate amidst the Minister of Transport, Dipuo Peters, being fired during the recent Cabinet reshuffle and the Prasa board being dissolved. Untu general secretary, Steve Harris, said in a statement that the workers would down tools because the employer s offer was an insult . Prasa s final offer is an insult to its employees. There has been no movement from Prasa management since the start of the salary negotiations in February, when the employer put a three percent salary increase on the table, Harris said. Prasa is also not prepared to increase any of the allowances labour demanded. These allowances have not been increased in years. At the beginning of wage negotiations in February, Untu tabled a 20 percent salary demand at the Prasa bargaining forum, demanding it to be implemented with effect from 1 April. Untu, the majority union at Prasa, also demanded among other things a R50 increase in allowance for travelling technicians on Mainline Passenger Services, a R1,000 medical allowance to all employees, as well as a R20 per hour increase in night-shift allowance. According to Harris, Prasa employees have yet to feel the devastating effect of the country s downgrade to junk status. Harris said Prasa management had stayed within the guidelines, given in the budget, of state-owned enterprises by the former Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan. Responding to Untu s demands, Prasa alleged that it was in dire straits and faces the danger of not being able to pay current salaries. The passenger rail agency said that it had a R1,8 billion deficit that would be carried over to the next financial year. Untu said it would now embark on a process of getting a mandate from its members in terms of the Constitution. Meanwhile, the nationwide strike by bus drivers over salaries and working conditions started on Wednesday morning could have dire consequences for those undertaking long distance trips home this Easter weekend. Bus drivers affiliated to several unions, including he South African Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu), National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa), and the Transport and Allied Workers Union (Tawu), are seeking a 12 percent increase while employers are offering 7.5 percent. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.