Favour s Pride might only be a two-time winner and both those victories were at Fairview in Port Elizabeth, but she has had some excellent runs behind some of the top fillies and mares in the country. This daughter of Harry Hall is just three-years-old but she has already raced 26 times for those two wins and 12 places. Just two runs back Corne Spies charge took on some top sprinters in the Grade 3 Man O War Sprint over 1100m and finished third, 4.50 lengths behind the vastly im proved Exquisite Touch. She showed the run was no fluke at the Vaal last Tuesday when flying up late over 1000m to finish a neck second behind Hashtag Strat, one of the fastest fillies in the country. Favour s Pride is in action at the Vaal in Race 6 tomorrow, a FM 84 Handicap, and should be far better suited to this 1200m event, the distance over which her two wins have come. Craig Zackey has an excellent record when riding this filly and is back on board. Sean Tarry has his yard in such good form right now that one can not ignore any runner from his stable. He saddles She s Foxy who was strongly fancied to follow up on her maiden win last time. However, she ran below her best and was examined by the vet. Nothing was found on the day but Tarry did admit to having a virus in the yard and some of his run ners were under-performing so she deserves another chance. She is lightly raced and has lots of room for improvement. Silver Class has loads of ability and can never be written off. She finished ahead of Favour s Pride in a race won by Samarra but that was over 1450m and could be too far for the Spies runner. Johan Janse van Vuuren is an other trainer whose horses have suffered from a virus but they are starting to come back to form. As a result, Silver Class has to come into the reckoning, especially with Gavin Lerena up. Mike de Kock appears to have some decent juveniles and a num ber of them are carded to race tomorrow. Alfolk, Mujallad and Naafer are all early entries for the Grade 1 SA Nursery while Fish River has been nominated for the Grade 2 SA Fillies Nursery at Turf fontein on 6 May.