Saving the best for last might be considered a hackneyed expression by many but as far as tomorrow s Vaal meeting is concerned it is absolutely true. The eight-race card on the Inside track concludes with a FM 90 Handicap over 1000m and the majority of these runners are coming out of features races. Seven of the 14 runners contested the Grade 3 Bauhinia Handicap over 1000m at Turffontein on 11 March but there has been some changes in the weights. Most significantly when Old Em ran in that event she had a merit rating of 92 but in this event she races off a rating of 90. That means she meets all the runners on at least 1kg better terms. The Bauhinia Handicap was won by Exquisite Touch and Old Em finished fifth, beaten 1.80 lengths. Movie Show ran third, 1.65 lengths off the winner, while Hashtag Strat split the pair, just a short head in front of Old Em. Based on that performance, the 1kg turnaround brought about by the drop in merit rating should see Sean Tarry s charge finish ahead of both of them on this occasion. However, there is one problem. Old Em and Movie Show met again in the Sycamore Sprint over 1100m and again Movie Show had the edge by 0.30 lengths. On that run Paul Peter s charge is now 1.5kg better off and should confirm the form. Old Em is reported to have been hanging out in that race so on the basis of the Bauhinia Handicap which was over the same distance as tomorrow s event, I will stay with Old Em. S manga Khumalo, who is the last jockey to have won on this daughter of Trippi, gets the ride. Movie Show has done well in her last three starts, teaming up with apprentice Lyle Hewitson and he is back aboard the fouryear- old daughter of Atso. An interesting runner who is sure to go off at a big price is Favour s Pride. She also finished behind Exquisite Touch but that was in the Man O War Sprint over 1100m at Turffontein on 1 April. Trained by Corne Spies, this daughter of Harry Hall ran a 4.50-length third in that feature, getting 5kg from the winner. When Old Em ran behind Exquisite Touch she gave the winner 1.5kg. As 7kg splits the pair in this event they are handicapped to finish quite close together. Craig Zackey takes the ride. Hashtag Strat has a lot of speed and should be close up going into the final stages and others with chances include Lady Of The World, Gimmethemoney, Captain s Girl, Winter Al and KZN visitor Just Vogue.