Brazilian President Michel Temer on Wednesday said the government must continue its work despite a massive corruption investigation targeting more than 80 officials, including members of his cabinet. The government cannot be paralyzed, Temer said, a day after the Federal Supreme Court (STF) revealed the extent of a wide-reaching probe into corruption in the public sector. Nothing must stop the activity of the government, said Temer, some of whose closest aides appear on the court s investigation list of suspects named in Operation Car Wash. The court s special rapporteur for the investigation, Judge Edson Fachin, on Tuesday unveiled the list, which targets eight ministers. Originally, the number was nine, but apparently Fachin asked prosecutors to exclude Culture Minister Roberto Freire due to the fact that he is over 70. Also on the list are the leaders of prominent political parties, including the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PMDB) the chief party in the ruling coalition and its closest ally, the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB). Additionally, the presidents of both the Senate and Chamber of Deputies, and 71 legislators (42 deputies and 29 senators), are under investigation. Following the release of the list late Tuesday, both houses of congress were largely empty. Brazilian President Michel Temer on Wednesday said the government must continue its work despite a massive corruption investigation targeting more than 80 officials, including members of his cabinet. The government cannot be paralyzed, Temer said, a day after the Federal Supreme Court (STF) revealed the extent of a wide-reaching probe into corruption in the public sector. Nothing must stop the activity of the government, said Temer, some of whose closest aides appear on the court s investigation list of suspects named in Operation Car Wash. The court s special rapporteur for the investigation, Judge Edson Fachin, on Tuesday unveiled the list, which targets eight ministers. Originally, the number was nine, but apparently Fachin asked prosecutors to exclude Culture Minister Roberto Freire due to the fact that he is over 70. Also on the list are the leaders of prominent political parties, including the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PMDB) the chief party in the ruling coalition and its closest ally, the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB). Additionally, the presidents of both the Senate and Chamber of Deputies, and 71 legislators (42 deputies and 29 senators), are under investigation. Following the release of the list late Tuesday, both houses of congress were largely empty. The suspects have all been incriminated by former executives of construction firms, such as Odebrecht, that paid bribes and kickbacks to officials in exchange for lucrative construction contracts.