Hundreds of Save South Africa (Save SA) supporters marched to the National Treasury in Pretoria and demanded that the new Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba come out and tell them what he was doing in the Treasury building. Save SA also demanded to know when Gigaba was going to resign from his post as finance minister. They claimed he failed in his previous posts as Minister of Home Affairs and Public Enterprises. Chairperson of the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) Sipho Pityana told the crowd that South Africans needed to work together to try and win back the country, regardless of their political affiliations. Pityana and the protesters slammed Zuma and called him a criminal who broke his own oath of office but somehow still remained in power. Jacob Zuma is a criminal and he won t take me to court for saying this, because he himself knows that, Pityana said Pityana stated that the taking over of Treasury showed that there was a corrupt agenda, something which South Africans had to worry about. Protesters quoted former President Nelson Mandela s speech at the Cosatu Conference in 1993, which said: If the ANC does to you what the apartheid government did to you, then you must do to the ANC what you did to the apartheid government. Pityana said the speaker of Parliament must allow members of parliament to debate this matter and rule on it in a motion of confidence. He claimed that Zuma was removing good people, who were standing in his way, and leaving those people who supported him. Pityana said they are still asking themselves how Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini managed to stay in her post. Congress of the People (Cope) leader Mosiuoa Lekota meanwhile, said the Zuma was undermining the Constitution of SA. He added that the president controlled the ANC with contempt and also claimed that Zuma tried to control everything. Now he feels so strong that he has begun to control the Cabinet and is even trying to undermine the judiciary, Lekota said. He concluded by saying anybody who governed without the guide of the Constitution was a danger to the people of South Africa because this was how dictatorial tendencies developed. We re prepared to go the trenches against Guptas, says Pityana For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter