The new Minister of Transport, Joe Maswanganyi, said he inherited a functional department with dedicated men and women who are committed to the realisation of the mission and vision of the department and government in general. Maswanganyi was speaking at his very first media briefing and first public engagement in Pretoria after replacing former Transport Minister Dipuo Peters. He said he will be meeting Peters to discuss matters related to the handover and also to have an opportunity to thank her personally on the contribution she has made. I have earlier met the senior management of the department of transport to ensure that there is seamless transition and continuation in rendering services to the people of South Africa. I will continue to meet the chairpersons and CEOs of our state-owned entities, he added, a couple of days after the Easter road safety campaign was launched in the Western Cape. The message we want to send is We are ready, willing and able to make a difference in the lives of our people . Maswanganyi said he will continue to engage with all relevant stakeholders on the contentious issues of the e-tolls, taking cues from existing government policies as well as the concerns of the public. We want to assure the nation that we are a government that listens, he said. We remain committed to compel Tasima to comply with the Constitutional Court verdict that Tasima should hand over the running of eNatis to the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC). He assured South Africans that the department of transport is producing driver s licence cards and manages the driver s licence system without the involvement of a third party and the work had been diligently and successfully managed. The minister also said they have signed a cooperation agreement with the People s Republic of China (PRC) to build the Moloto Rail Development Corridor. These new developments along Moloto road will bring about a huge reduction in the number of accidents and deaths. RTMC more than ready to take over eNatis new transport minister For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.