Speaking at the Masakh iSizwe bursary awards ceremony in Cape Town on Saturday, transport and public works MEC Donald Grant said graduates had to meet a number of requirements before they could become registered professionals after completing their formal qualifications. Thus, the department had, because of the problems that may lie ahead, been complementing its bursary programme with two professional development programmes that trained and developed graduates employed by the department, and that gave them the support they needed to meet the requirements for professional registration. He said he was well aware that it was not an easy task to attain professional registration. This is our contribution to increasing the number of people who have met the complex demands for professional registration in the transport, engineering and built environment disciplines. The current economic climate was particularly difficult for youth. It was a struggle for young people to gain access to tertiary education. Once they had completed their courses it was often a struggle for young graduates to gain employment. It is a paradox that while our country is faced with [a] shortage of skills many graduates remain unemployed. This situation is caused in part by a mismatch in the supply and demand for specific skills, as well as employers requiring experience even for entry-level posts, Grant said. The Masakh iSizwe bursary programme and the professional development programmes worked together to create an environment that removed barriers for youth, unlocked their potential, and provided them with opportunities to maximise their achievement. At the same time these programmes addressed critical skills shortages while empowering youth and driving economic growth through infrastructure development. These programmes revolved around four main objectives: addressing the skills shortage in the transport, engineering, and built environment sectors; empowering financially disadvantaged youth by providing them with opportunities to obtain tertiary qualifications and attain professional registration; reducing youth unemployment through work-relevant job placements of interns and graduates in the transport, engineering, and built environment sectors; and establishing partnerships with relevant stakeholders to provide a collaborative platform where relevant stakeholders, ie the private sector, NGOs, foundations, professional bodies, higher education institutions, and different spheres of government, shared resources and influenced the curricula of higher education institutions to ensure these responded effectively to the needs of both public and private sector employers. A total of 10 companies were currently participating as partners with the department in these activities through the bursary collaboration venture, and another 49 companies were silent partners. This joint venture aimed to empower youth by making available funding for tertiary education and to create learning and employment placements for interns and graduates, Grant said. Looking back at the history and track record of the Masakh iSizwe bursary programme since its inception during 2006 I m proud to announce that over the last seven years we have had a 100 percent success rate in facilitating the placement and rotation of our interns to ensure that they receive the exposure, experience, and training requirements of higher education institutions. Furthermore, an average of 80 percent of graduates has been placed in employment. These successes would not have been possible without the ongoing support of our bursary collaboration venture partners and other companies in the sector, he said. Grant urged the 2017 bursars to take every opportunity offered by the bursary programme to excel at the higher education institutions where they would be studying to become ready for the working world, and through this to contribute to the economic growth of the country.