How does one unseat a democratically elected president seemingly bent on apparently destroying South Africa s economy and refuses to leave? This is the nettle the newly formed civil society organisation Freedom Movement must grasp while it tries to remove President Jacob Zuma from office before the 2019 national elections. He must go now. We believe the longer he stays in office, the more damage he will do, academic and founder Prince Mashele told The Citizen. We have seen his irresponsible decisions and it appears to us he is now acting with the knowledge his term is ending so he wants to make hay while the sun shines. We want to stop him, because he can still do more damage. The movement is a conglomerate of political parties, civil organisations and ordinary citizens and forms a collective focal point for the rising tide of anti-Zuma sentiment. At the launch table were Dennis George, secretary-general of the Federation of Unions of South Africa, DA leader Mmusi Maimane, Mashele, United Democratic Movement leader General Bantu Holomisa, Ben Thuron from the Organisation Against Tax Abuse, Giet Khoza of the National Religious Council and human rights activist Catherine Constantinides. I never thought after 1994 I would be part of a march against the ruling party, said Holomisa. It looks like the struggle has been hijacked by some corrupt elements. The movement s statement said it was a crisis of a political leadership that has allowed our state to be hijacked by corrupt interests at the expense of needs and aspirations of the poor, the marginalised and patriotic South Africans&#8221;. Nelson Mandela s former personal assistant Zelda Le Grange said the movement was a united coalition and had nothing to do with party politics. I m 100% behind them. We all feel, &#8216;What can we do?&#8217; This is what I can do, Le Grange said in one of her rare demonstrations of public support for a movement. The worst thing we can do as South Africans is get used to the status quo of corruption and mismanagement. Ordinary South Africans will have this outlet of the Freedom Movement, La Grange said. You don t have to belong to any political party or wear a T-shirt or whatever to be there. It s just for ordinary people to join a movement and say, &#8216;This is enough.&#8217; La Grange said it was difficult to say what Mandela would have said or felt about her taking part in the organisation. However, I can learn from his example that if you are principled and have certain morals and values and rules you live by, and are willing to stand up for them, then you must stand up. The movement is also supported by Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu. In principle Aunt Leah and I are in support of a united coalition calling on all South Africans to join the event on 27 April 2017, Tutu said in a statement. It is important that we unite as South Africans to bring an end to state capture and that we further the values of our democratic society by speaking out against any and all kinds of injustice in our society. Let s work together in the interest of a better life for all our people. The event Tutu is referring to is a gathering next week at Freedom Park, Pretoria. The Freedom Movement is also planning a large-scale protest outside Parliament when the motion of no confidence is eventually debated. Holomisa hoped the directions from the Constitutional Court with regards to the UDM s application to force a secret ballot in Parliament would be finalised by Friday. We shall not sit back and watch while the future of our children is destroyed by a rogue president working with parasitic private interests. This is our country. We shall defend it! reads the Freedom Movement s statement. We call upon South Africans to rise and reclaim their power. Let us stand up and defend our hard-won freedom and the future of our country. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.