Carry On Alice makes her comeback to com petitive racing at Turf fontein tomorrow night as she warms-up for the defence of her Computa form Sprint (Grade 1) title next month. Although she might be in need of the run her dominance at the weights in this Pinnacle Stakes over 1100m make her impossible to oppose. In addition, consider ing the current form of Sean Tar ry s stable it would take someone with Dutch courage to oppose her. Had Race 6 been a handicap the five-year-old daughter of Captain Al would have had to give between 6.5kg and 13kg extra to her oppo sition but under the race condi tions she meets them all under extremely favourable terms. Carry On Alice last ran in the Grade 1 Betting World Cape Flying Handicap over 1000m at Kenil worth where she kept going long enough to hold off stable com panion Trip To Heaven by 0.30 lengths. That day she met some of the best sprinters in the land while the opposition in this event looks a lot less remarkable. The extra 100m will prove no problem as she has had three runs over the course and distance for two wins and a third place, and that last one was on debut when she lost to Majmu. As has been the case in the majority of her races, S manga Khumalo takes the ride. He has been aboard the filly for all of her wins. The second best weighted runner is stable companion Tro phy Wife who has only had one run since last year s Durban July meeting on 2 July. She is likely to find 1100m too sharp although she will be racing fresh after a 101-day layoff. Somebody has to finish second and although 10kg under suffer ance, that position could go to Lumya. She put up an improved performance last time when fin ishing fourth to Seattle Singer in the Grade 3 Sycamore Sprint over 1160m at this course last month, beaten just 2.70 lengths. Marco van Rensburg had the ride then will be aboard again tomorrow. Race 7 is a MR 93 Handicap over 1160m and this looks to be a little more competitive although three runners should fight it out. Romi s Boy has a big reputation but Alec Laird s charge has been a little disappointing. However, his best form has been over this course and dis tance and with just 54kg on his back he looks the pick of the field. Muzi Yeni takes the ride. The main threat should come from Mombela and top weight Amazing Strike.