It was all roof-top parties, open bars and designer clothes at the South African launch of D usse Cognac in Braamfontein, Johannesburg on March 30. Actress and Metro FM radio host Khanyi Mbau did a terrific job as MC. Among the guests were some of Jozi s freshest faces, including BET A-List presenter Ayanda Thabethe, Danine Naidoo from E! Entertainment presenter search; Vuzu TV s Nomuzi Mabena, DJ Spectacular and Dimples all draped in their finest threads. What was billed as a celebration of opulence became a top-class fashion showcase. Metallic: a timeless trend which adds sparkle and gloss to any look. Whether on a pair of jeans or jacket like Nomuzi Mabena rocked it, the metallic trend is all that stands between standing out in the crowd or falling victim to the surroundings. Print: it s always advised that when deciding on a print, start small and wear one particular item paired with a solid item of clothing, like Metro FM DJ Spectacular did. However, should you feel confident, play around with different prints to create a clash. Crop: The cropped look if perfect for petite ladies like Ayanda Thabethe, who want to give off the illusion of being tall. From just a glance at her two-piece suit, she looks slightly taller than normal. Her choice of a bob haircut also adds definition to her face and elongates the neck. Loose fit: Pop music sensation Tamara Dey, in high-waisted loose black slacks and crop top, looked perfect when going from the day to night. For curvy women, high-waisted slacks are a great way of removing attention from the curves and more on to the entire look. Sports lux: Made popular by American pop singer Ciara and the fabulous Rihanna, the sport lux look allows for a flirty and funky way of wearing a pair of jeans and white tee. Just look at Danine Naidoo s interpretation. The choice to substitute the T with a lacy camisole top to show off her d colletage. However, the use of the off-the shoulder bomber jacket draws the focus to her face and beautiful neckline, as well as preventing too much skin showing. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.