The Zwartkops Raceway near Pretoria will host round three of the 2017 Inland Championship this Saturday, with seven racing categories in action. Top billing will belong to the Bridgestone BMW Club Racing Series contenders, with a full grid expected in each of the category s four classes. In Class A, current points leader Julian Fameliaris (BMW E36 328i Turbo) will face strong opposition from people like Lorenzo Gualtieri (BMW E36 328i Turbo), Dino Fameliaris (BMW E36 M3 Turbo), Mish-al Sing (BMW E30 325is), Darren Winterboer (BMW F30 335i) and Gianni Giannoccaro (BMW E82 1M GT). Rick Loureiro (BMW E30 3.2 CSL) will head up Class B, versus people like Riaan Woest (BMW E46 M3 GTR), Paulo Loureiro (BMW E36 M3 GTS) and JB Breedt (BMW E36 328i Turbo). Drivers to watch in Classes C and D would include Willie Erasmus (BMW E36 M3), Len-Henry Gobey (BMW E36 M3), Philip Smit (BMW E46 M3), Shane Grobler (BMW E36 328i) and Jan Eversteyn (BMW E36 328i). The day s closest racing should be provided by the Inex Legends brigade, with some 15 of the howling, 1400cc motorcycle-engined little cars to face the starter. The man to beat must be Anro Stadler (Geo Tronics Legend), challenged by drivers like Richard Upton (R.U.Legend), Willie Erasmus (Liqui Moly Legend), Jordan Larsson (N&amp;S Bodyworks Legend), Alton Bouw (Big Boss Auto Legend) and Richard van Heerden (Browndock Roofing Legend). The Big Boss Auto Super Saloon category should see varied competition, headed in Class GTA by Lonika Maartens (Chev Lumina), Amos Cockeram Jnr (Chev Lumina), Devin Robertson (Chev Corvette) and Benjamin Morgenrood (Ford Mustang). Others to watch back in the field will include Marius Jackson (Audi TT) and JP Nortje (Tigra Spaceframe). The Midvaal Historic Car Club races will see a wide variety of vehicles on the track. Top contenders should include the likes of Andre de Lange (VW Jetta MK 1), Seef Fourie Junior (Datsun 160Y), Shawn Smidt (Datsun SSS), Andy Gossman (VW Scirocco) and Jannie van Rooyen (VW Scirocco). Also set to provide spectacle will be Ken Price (Datsun GX Coupe), Brendon Parker (Datsun GX Coupe), Deon van Vuuren (Ford Escort Mk1), Francois Jacobs (Datsun GX 1200) and Wentzel Nortman (Toyota Celica). Single seater fans will be able to appreciate the efforts of the Formula Monoposto brigade. Current Formula M championship leader Duncan Bosch (McPherson) will be under pressure from second placed man Hylton Morrow (Formula M). Formula Libre should see contenders such as John Maurien (VW Ray) and Sean Harrington (Ray Formula GTi) do battle, chased by Johan Botha (Mygale SJ99), Jannie Geyser (Rhema 2), Carel van Heerden (Swift Formula GTi) and Sean Harrington (Ray Formula GTI). The event will also see classic single seater machines racing in the Historic Single Seaters races. Chris Clarke (Titan Formula Ford), Patrick Dunseith (Merlyn Formula Ford), Stuart Thompson (Dulon FF), Graham Vos (Dulon FF) and Stuart Grant (Lotu sFF) should all have wheel to wheel battles at the sharp end. The Silver Cup category should show a strong contingent of entrants. Admission will cost R90 per adult and R70 per student while kids under 12 will go in free. Racing is expected to start at 10.15am, with qualifying sessions from 8am. For more information visit the Zwartkops Raceway website at zwartkops.co.za or contact the office on 012 384 2299.