The Kings continue to remain exciting on the attack but had to stomach a 34-47 loss to the Reds in Brisbane on Saturday morning. Soft moments on defence and not doing the basics well cost them badly. It&#8217;s a pity because their exciting backline continue to impress. Who was the star of this match? Nothing beats experience and Reds eighthman Scott Higginbotham showed that once again. He showed a turn of pace to prevent a Kings try, linked well in attacking play and defended solidly. Mercurial Wallaby flyhalf Quade Cooper also had his moments in the second half. For the Kings, wing Makazole Mapimpi worked hard and mesmerised with a magnificent solo try. Key themes and events The Kings somehow managed to stay in touch in the first half, despite lacking in rhythm and not having a lot of possession. They were helped by a Reds side that had butterfingers on the attack. Deon Davids&#8217; troops lost this game either side of half-time. And they did so in the most frustrating manner. Reds centre Duncan Paia&#8217;aua had been sin binned for a no-arms tackle but the Kings actually managed to concede two tries despite playing with an extra man. Veteran George Smith&#8217;s try was from a set-move while winger Eto Nabuli merely exploited disorganised defence. The Kings showed heart in the final 15 minutes with some lovely attacking play. Their back three of Coyi Banda, Makazole Mapimpi and Yaw Penxe continue to impress. One wonders how they&#8217;ll do with some better decision-makers around them. The set-pieces continues to be a problem for the Kings. They seldom have a decent platform to work from. It&#8217;s a mystery because, on paper, they boast an excellent group of props. Nabuli&#8217;s first try came from the Kings conceding a tighthead. Point scorers Reds &#8211; Tries: Eto Nabuli (2), Karmichael Hunt (2), Izaia Perese (2), George Smith. Conversions: Quade Cooper (5). Kings &#8211; Tries: Makazole Mapimpi (2), Chris Cloete, Louis Schreuder, Coyi Banda. Conversions: Lionel Cronje (2), Pieter-Steyn de Wet. Penalty: Cronje. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.