If approved by Nelson Mandela Bay Council cash strapped Eastern Province Rugby Union (EPRU) could be bailed out of its liquidation debt with an amount of R15 million paid over three years in exchange for three international tests to be played in Port Elizabeth. The proposed payment was discussed at a mayoral committee meeting on Wednesday. The item on the agenda was supported by all committee members, except for Deputy Mayor Mongameli Bobani who likened the deal to a form of blackmail. Backing the deal, executive mayor Athol Trollip said without a host union the Bay could not host test matches, including the one against Argentina in August. There is no gun here, that is the reality. If the union is liquidated there is no host union. We have two tenants, we have Chippa United and we have EP Rugby now Chippa cannot host a rugby test match. So if we don t have a union we cannot host and that R500 million and those test matches will go to some other city in South Africa, said Trollip. The proposed R15 million paid to EP rugby comes with an agreement from Saru that the Bay would receive three test matches over the next three years. If EPRU is liquidated, the province will cease to have a host union. Without a host union international tests matches will cease to exist for the Eastern Cape and rugby is expected to suffer exponentially. But Bobani did not see eye to eye with Trollip and said the deal would be a waste of taxpayers money. We can t give taxpayers money to people who have mismanaged their own financial affairs. I am totally objecting to this, they putting a gun to our head saying that if we don t pay them, rugby will be dead. This city will make sure that the stadium doesn t turn into an elephant. They must fix their own problems, said Bobani. However, Economic development, tourism and agriculture head, Andrew Whitfield, argued that EPRU had come through a transitional phase with new leadership as well as being under the administration of Saru. He said the proposed service level agreement sought to address concerns to ensure that the metro s investment was protected. The combined indirect and direct economic impact in the metro with this support of R15 million and receiving those three tests, is almost R500 million pumped into this economy and well over 1000 jobs. What we are asking is that R5 million per year from July 2017 to September 2019, as per the liquidation agreement, to prevent EPRU from being liquidated so that we have a host, said Whitfield. As per a proposal from the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) the cost of the NMB Stadium in 2014/15 was R233 million whereas the income was only R42 million. In 2015/16 financial year the cost was R201 million versus revenue of R50 million the increase in revenue was due to a rugby test match being played that year, according to the MBDA. The decision the mayoral committee needs to take is quite simple, are we going to run the risk of a depreciating asset over the next three years without rugby test matches which indicate significant indirect and direct economic impact? Are we going to continue to incur losses or are we going to look for ways to promote the commercialisation of this asset? asked Whitfield. He said that all sporting codes including rugby were critical to the success and commercialisation of the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. -African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.