Bagamoyo. Live concerts have become quite a rare item lately but as Karibu Music Festival gears toward the annual gig they decided to treat revellers with something a bit unique.And as it turned out it was one of the most powerful live performances that the rather quiet coastal town has experienced this year with a massive audience that sang and danced along at the Baga Point Grounds.Featuring live performances the town was sparked into life by groups such as Segere Original, Jagwa Music and Tabasamu from Dar es Salaam, Justin Godykaozya and Tongwa Ensemble and Chikaya Buruya from Bagamoyo.The openning performance from the Jagwa group which was led by Jackson Kazimoto aka Dogo Jackie the day kicked off to the strong vocals, drum beats and dance with one of their famous hits Mpango Mzima . The event organized by Karibu Music Festival and Legendary Music is a preamble to the main event which is expected to take place in November.Despite being a mini event there was everything that revellers usually look up to at a festival, the atmosphere, the performances and even the spirit of adventure. Speaking to The Beat, festival manager, Kwame Mchauru said the festival which is now in its fourth year has continued to be a vital platform for artistes to showcase their talent and ability to a diverse audience. We believe that, through this Mini Karibu Festival information on the festival will spread to many people out there, as well as stimulate the cultural tourism in Bagamoyo. In the process offering opportunities to different musicians who will perform every month to ease the selection process for the main event, says Mchauru.According to him the main reason why they had decided to make the event free was to allow everyone enjoy the music after a busy week. He says that the selection process is based on the groups that can sing as well as play music instruments and entertain the audience.Also present at the festival was Kim Kimenya the Bagamoyo cultural officer who believes that the festival is a vital tool in promoting music, arts and skills of young artistes in the country. I appreciate efforts by Karibu Music Festival because Bagamoyo is endowed with massive talent which in turn has become one of the biggest employer. in order to reveal these talents we need these platforms to make sure up and coming musicians from Bagamoyo utilize the opportunity, says Kimenya.He adds: Karibu Music Festival comes along with so many advantages that uplifts lives of Bagamoyo residents because during these festivals the hotels in Bagamoyo are full and the fish market turns out to be the place that most people visit.Chikaya Buruya an up and coming African pop musician based in Bagomoyo was the toast of the day and she just can t wait for the main event later in the year. I have been doing music for some time now. It has been two years since I decided to go full time. Karibu Mini Festival is the biggest platform I have ever had in my career. I saw people who understood my music as they sang with me while on stage. I would love to see several of these opportunities in and around the country feature more women, says Chikaya.According to Chikaya such career platforms which features International standards of live performances are very beneficial when artistes take such them seriously and make sure they get something new as well as expanding music contacts.Karibu Music Festival is an international music festival organized by Tanzanians who share a strong passion for music, art and culture. This year marks the 4th edition of the festival which was launched in 2014 taking place at Mwanakalenge Grounds in Bagamoyo.The festival focuses on different genre of music basing on its influence and popularity, from traditional, modern to world music namely Fusion, Rock, Reggae, Hip hop, Pop, Jazz and other alternative music.Apart from the live music performances, the festival featured musicians selling and showcasing their CDs (Albums), craftsmen and artisans selling unique products, cultural food and drink vendors, activities for children and more art adventure.