Whether it will come to South Africa or not is undecided, but the 2018 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trackhawk is some &#8211; thing to drool over. With a supercharged 6.2-litre V8 engine producing 520 kW and feeding a TorqueFlite eight-speed automatic transmission, this brute can make it to 96 km/h in 3.5 seconds, covering a quarter mile in 11.6 seconds at 186 km/h, before reaching a top speed of 288 km/h. . Built in Detroit at the Jefferson North Assembly Plant, the 2018 Grand Cherokee Trackhawk will arrive in USA Jeep showrooms in the fourth quarter of 2017. Powering the 2018 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trackhawk is a super &#8211; charged 6.2-litre V-8 engine delivering 520 kW and 875 Nm of torque. The 2 380cc per revolution supercharger includes integral charge-air coolers and an inte &#8211; grated electronic bypass valve to regulate boost pressure to a max &#8211; imum of 80 kPa. The twin-screw rotors are specially coated with a proprietary formula of polyimide and other resins as well as nano &#8211; meter-sized, wear-resistant particles and solid lubricants, such as PTFE (Teflon). The coating enables tighter clearance between the rotors. This reduces internal air leakage, delivering improved compressor performance and higher efficiencies. The coating can withstand the temperatures generated by compression, and provides superior corrosion resistance. The supercharger is sealed for life with premium synthetic oil, uses a drive ratio of 2.36:1 and has a maximum speed of 14 600 r/min. . Air sources for the supercharger include a cold-air scoop in the lower front fascia, which replaces the driver s-side fog lamp and helps to feed the 92mm throttle body. The large-nosed crankshaft drives a high-flow gerotor oil pump, which feeds a lubrication circuit that includes eight high-flow piston-cooling jets. A high-capacity oil/air heat ex &#8211; changer, mounted in the front of the Trackhawk, keeps oil temperatures down when driving conditions are harshest, such as on the track. A new low-temperature cooling system, consisting of a pump, reservoir, heat exchanger and lines, help keep the charge air cool during performance driving. This system is designed to keep intake air temperatures below 60 degrees Celsius, even under extreme ambient conditions. The performance of the 2018 Jeep Grand Cherokee Trackhawk is bolstered by various upgraded driveline components engineered to handle the 875Nm torque output from the supercharged engine. It is equipped with the Jeep Quadra-Trac on-demand fourwheel-drive system, which includes an electronic limited-slip rear differential and a sin &#8211; gle-speed active transfer case. The new, full-time active transfer case uses forged steel chain sprockets and a wider chain for added strength and durability. A strengthened rear drive shaft connects to a new, stronger rear axle. The differential features a revised housing design, revised ring-and-pinion tooth geometry and new four-point axle mounting scheme for better load distribution, additional torque capacity and overall durability. Launch control is standard. A new standard Torque Re &#8211; serve system provides improved engine torque response and quicker vehicle acceleration in Launch Control by pre-positioning the supercharger bypass valve to generate boost and minimize manifold filling time, while cut &#8211; ting fuelling to individual cylinders and managing spark timing. This generates a reserve of torque that can be instantaneously delivered upon acceleration from a standing stop. The Selec-Track system on the Grand Cherokee Trackhawk uses performance-tuned software to pre-configure and distinguish the five dynamic modes, including: Auto, Sport, Track, Snow and Tow. The drive modes separately control the four-wheel-drive system, transmission, paddle shifters, suspension and the electric power steering. Auto mode automatically adapts to any condition; using a 40% front/60% rear torque split. In Sport transmission shift times are reduced by 50% versus Auto Mode; stability control, four-wheel-drive and steering systems are set for typical enthusiast driving style; paddle shifters are enabled and suspension is tightened up without increasing impact harshness to deliver increased vehicle performance capability over Auto Mode; using 35/65 torque split. With Track selected trans &#8211; mission shift times are reduced 68% versus Auto Mode to 160 milliseconds; stability control, four-wheel-drive and steering systems are set for ultimate track performance; paddle shifters are enabled and suspension is set to full firm to deliver maximum vehicle performance capability on smooth, dry surfaces; it uses a 30/70 torque split. Tow alters torque delivery off the line for greater smoothness and adjusts suspension to com &#8211; bat pitch and yaw to deliver maximum towing performance and uses a 60/40 torque split. Trackhawk is capable of towing 3 266 kg. Snow, meanwhile, maximises traction to deliver optimised performance on snow and ice with reduced engine power using a 50/50 torque split. Trackhawk also features a Custom Mode that allows the driver to personalize the vehicle s performance with a selectable driving experience offering a multitude of vehicle system combinations. The fog lights are absent from the Trackhawk s front fascia to optimize airflow to cooling mod &#8211; ules and air induction without compromising the balance. New standard 20 x 10-inch Titanium wheels with a Satin Chrome centre cap showcase the distinctive yellow calipers underneath. Available lightweight 20 x 10-inch forged aluminum Low Gloss Black wheels save five kilograms versus the standard Trackhawk wheel. Grand Cherokee Trackhawk also features allnew Pirelli 295/45ZR20 Scorpion Verde All-Season and new Pirelli P Zero three-season tyres with an increased speed rating. The instrument panel centre stack with new 8.4-inch Uconnect touchscreen features Trackhawk-exclusive Performance Pages that showcase an array of performance timers and gauge readouts, including a new engine dynamometer screen that measures instantaneous power, torque and current transmission gear. The dynamometer screen also includes a new snapshot function for owners to save their readouts on a USB. There is a choice of two audio systems, including an 825- watt Harman Kardon high-performance audio system with 19-speakers and two subwoofers. The Trackhawk includes Trailer Hitch Camera View at Speed, which allows owners to view trailered items through the rear-mounted camera while moving, and a Valet mode that ensures no one else enjoys your Trackhawk as much as you do by locking out performance features. Other prominent, standard Grand Cherokee Trackhawk safety and security features include adaptive cruise control with stop; advanced brake assist; blind-spot monitoring with rear cross path detection; full-speed forward collision warning with crash mitigation; front and rear park assist; lane departure warning-plus and ready alert braking. New for 2018, the Jeep Grand Cherokee Trackhawk is equipped with standard Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Jeep are not decided as to whether it is coming to SA. We can only hope.