Should the leadership of the Uitenhage ANC have their way, axed deputy minister of finance Mcebisi Jonas could resurrect his political career as the chairman of that branch. Jonas was fired together with his superior, Pravin Gordhan during a Cabinet reshuffle which saw president Jacob Zuma axe six ministers, five of whom have resigned as MPs from parliament. The move saw the markets take a dive with major credit agencies downgrading the country to junk status. According to Disptach LIVE, ward 46 in Uitenhage has nominated Jonas to succeed Phumulo Masualle as the provincial chairman. Simphiwo Madlavu, chairman of the branch said Jonas was a great choice as the province needed new leadership and fresh faces to take them forward. Also on the question of credibility the ANC as wounded as it is, will require people with credibility such as comrade Jonas to bring the ANC in the province back into the map of national politics, Madlavu said. While the prospect of Jonas returning to politics is interesting, his spokesperson Nkosohlanga Mboniswa has poured cold water on speculation despite having contested the provincial top position in 2009 where he lost to Mashualle. Mr Jonas has no interest of serving in the provincial ANC leadership, not at this stage and he will respect party nomination processes to unfold in this regard so anything is speculation for now, said Mboniswa. Nelson Mandela Bay regional secretary Themba Xathula said it was against party line to endore anyone before the elective conference in July. Speaking at a conference last month, Moneyweb reported that Jonas said South Africa is at a crossroads with high unemployment, corruption and inequality and the country needs a national dialogue about the way forward. We need a national dialogue to determine which compromises we must make, he said. Radical economic transformation should broaden economic participation not build a new elite, he said. The danger with the current narrative is that all the focus is on asset grab. He warned against replacing a white elite with a black elite. He added that the debate should also focus on how to ensure young people had the necessary skills and the enabling of entrepreneurs. ALSO READ: Mbete fights secret ballot in Zuma no-confidence vote For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.