It is not every day that you witness women of different races come together to celebrate one another and their individual achievements. Veuve Clicqout hosted a party for our local female celebrities &#8220;honored as South Africa s shining stars&#8221;. The Veuve Clicquot women celebration lunch took place yesterday, April 5, in Sandton. The lunch takes place once every year, with top female media personalities in the country, such as Boity Thulo, Nomzamo Mbatha, Blue Mlambo, Thembi Seete, Jessica Nkosi and other powerful women, all come together for a fun-filled day . The ever so beautiful @leratokganyago also attended the event. Picture: Thabang Buthelezi The guests where treated to three hours of good food, great company and exceptional champagne, gathering an amalgamation of business women, singers, actresses and entrepreneurs who are pushing boundaries in their own right and making a great impact in society as well as in their communities. It is not often that communication companies celebrate women, especially champagne houses. I love that they always celebrate women. Each and every woman in this room is winning in their own regard, and is pushing extra time to not only be a breadwinner at home but to be a pioneer, says Nomzamo. Isibaya actress Linda Mtabo, who is fairly new to the entertainment industry, said she was pleasantly surprised and honoured to have been invited to this year s lunch. Notwithstanding the fact that she is an outstanding actress who has a fruitful career ahead of her, Linda did not see herself being in the same calibre as the women in the room. What stood out for her was that the majority of the women at the event were women black women, proving that the country is evolving and that no matter where you are from, your dreams are valid, and they can come true: #BlackChildItsPossible. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.