Many of us start our days with caffeinated drinks to get going and apparently have no health issues drinking it frequently. Soda, tea, coffee, energy drinks or chocolates have some form of caffeine in them which can be harmful for you in large amounts.In small, occasional cups there is possibly a benefit of drinking it; a few studies have shown that it can improve alertness and it may reduce the risk of developing parkinson s disease, gallstones and liver cirrhosis.There are however some potential negative effects of coffee, especially when it becomes so addictive that it is difficult to go a day without it.Here are some potential negative effects of coffee:Digestive and excretory system effectsCaffeine raises the amount of acid in your stomach and may cause heartburn or upset stomach.It also causes your body to get rid of water and hence having large doses of caffeine cause you to lose too much water. Furthermore withdrawal symptoms of caffeine include nausea and vomiting.Circulatory and respiratory system effectsCaffeine reaches its highest levels in your bloodstream within an hour or two, this makes your blood pressure go up for a short time. Hence a high levels of caffeine in the bloodstream can cause irregular heartbeats and breathing problems.Reproductive system effectsCaffeine travels to the bloodstream and hence can cross the placenta. Too much caffeine can cause your baby s heart rate and metabolism to increase since it is a stimulant. Furthermore caffeine can also increase risk of miscarriage and slow fetal growth.Nervous system effectsCaffeine inhibits a chemical called adenosine, this is secreted by the brain to relax the brain. Suppression of adenosine affects the body by making it feel a tense surge of energy which gives a stimulating feeling that continues to rise. This makes the brain require increasing levels of caffeine to stimulate the same effect. This causes dependency on users who require caffeine on daily basis to get moving.Renal system effectsCaffeine is a diuretic; it stimulates kidneys to excrete more fluid as it interferes with the way fluid is reabsorbed in the blood. This is not necessarily negative however long term consumption of coffee can make kidney disease worse.Furthermore caffeine is known to be rich in a compound called oxalates, these bind to the blood and create calcium oxalates which is a major component of kidney stones.Skeletal and muscular systems effectsCaffeine can interfere with the absorption and metabolism of calcium which can lead to bone thinning and muscle weakness. It causes reduced bone mass and increased osteoporotic fracture risk in some people mainly in women. It is known that caffeine may contribute the loss of bone by increased urinary calcium excretion and decreased absorption efficiency of calcium.Many people are quite dependant on coffee and tea and probably won t like to hear all of these health associated problem with it. But if you ve made it reading this far, perhaps you have a feeling that there could be some value cutting down a bit or even replacing it.However an abrupt decrease in caffeine may cause withdrawal symptoms such as headaches, fatigue, irritability and difficulty focusing on tasks. Other ways to change your caffeine habits can be by keeping tabs of how much caffeine you are taking.