Police Minister Fikile Mbalula on Sunday said that disgraced former Hawks boss Mthandazo &#8220;Berning&#8221; Ntlemeza was welcome to show up for work on Tuesday morning, but he would not be doing so as the Hawks boss. Ntlemeza remains a police officer and has not yet been subjected to disciplinary procedures by the police. He therefore remains a member of the SA Police Service (SAPS). The minister told media that he did not have time for nonsense and distractions, and Ntlemeza had been removed from his position as the head of the Hawks by the high court, a decision that he had not opposed since it had stood little chance of success. The disgraced Hawks boss, however, believes only parliament can remove him, and he does not care what the courts or the minister think. Sunday newspaper City Press has reported that Ntlemeza has no intentions of quitting, and in fact intends to stay on until 2022, when the 61-year-old s term officially ends. He told the paper he would be reporting for duty on Tuesday after taking four days leave , despite the fact that a new acting head is already in place in the form of Yolisa Matakata. Ntlemeza said she is still my deputy and myself and Matakata do not have a problem . Police spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga has said the police are not sure whether Ntlemeza would report for duty, but they would decide how to deal with the situation if it arose. On Thursday, Mbalula announced the appointment of Matakata as the new acting national head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI), popularly known as the Hawks. On April 12, I the minister of police took a decision to withdraw the appeal lodged at the Supreme Court of Appeal, on the case brought by Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law (FUL). This means I must give effect to the [High Court] order of March 17 and set aside General [Berning] Ntlemeza s appointment, said Mbalula. Ntlemeza s appointment was nullified by the High Court in Pretoria and Mbalula insisted that he has been acting within his rights. He also wants Ntlemeza to cover his own legal costs for having opposed the legal cases against him, and for his continued appeal. On Wednesday the court ruled that its earlier finding that Ntlemeza was not a fit and proper person to lead the Hawks should come into immediate effect even though he has appealed the ruling. Mbalula informed Ntlemeza of this decision and asked for his observance. Ntlemeza, however, told City Press he believed only parliament could remove him and that he was concerned about the noise the minister is making . He said the Police Act protected the Hawks boss from dismissal by the minister. Ntlemeza therefore refused to sign an acknowledgment of the dismissal letter from Mbalula. He also told City Press he was enjoying his holiday and said the minister was misleading the public . ALSO READ: Ntlemeza refuses to quit report Sunday newspaper City Press has reported that Ntlemeza has no intentions of quitting, and in fact intends to stay on until 2022, when the 61-year-old s term officially ends. He told the paper he would be reporting for duty on Tuesday after taking four days leave , despite the fact that a new acting head is already in place in the form of Yolisa Matakata. Ntlemeza said she is still my deputy and myself and Matakata do not have a problem . Police spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga has said the police are not sure whether Ntlemeza would report for duty, but they would decide how to deal with the situation if it arose. On Thursday, Mbalula announced the appointment of Matakata as the new acting national head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI), popularly known as the Hawks. On April 12, I the minister of police took a decision to withdraw the appeal lodged at the Supreme Court of Appeal, on the case brought by Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law (FUL). This means I must give effect to the [High Court] order of March 17 and set aside General [Berning] Ntlemeza s appointment, said Mbalula. Ntlemeza s appointment was nullified by the High Court in Pretoria and Mbalula insisted that he has been acting within his rights. He also wants Ntlemeza to cover his own legal costs for having opposed the legal cases against him, and for his continued appeal. On Wednesday the court ruled that its earlier finding that Ntlemeza was not a fit and proper person to lead the Hawks should come into immediate effect even though he has appealed the ruling. Mbalula informed Ntlemeza of this decision and asked for his observance. Ntlemeza, however, told City Press he believed only parliament could remove him and that he was concerned about the noise the minister is making . He said the Police Act protected the Hawks boss from dismissal by the minister. Ntlemeza therefore refused to sign an acknowledgment of the dismissal letter from Mbalula. He also told City Press he was enjoying his holiday and said the minister was misleading the public . ALSO READ: Ntlemeza refuses to quit report