President Jacob Zuma expressed shock and sadness after 20 pupils died after a minibus taxi and truck collided head-on on Friday, on the R25 between Verena and Bronkhorstspruit, outside Pretoria. This is a sad and painful tragedy, taking place just when the country is coming to terms with a number of lives that have been lost during the Easter weekend. On behalf of government and all South Africans we extend our heartfelt condolences to families of the learners, relatives and friends. May their souls rest in peace, Zuma said. We further call on law enforcement authorities to swiftly investigate the causes of this horrifying accident that has claimed so much young lives. We also call on all road users in the country to be more vigilant and adhere to the road rules and take safety precautions seriously to avoid unnecessary loss of life. Zuma wished all those who were injured, a speedy recovery. Earlier, paramedics said that over 10 pupils were killed and several others injured on Friday afternoon. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi rushed to the scene, his department said. It is with sadness to inform that, a minibus transporting learners was involved in a horrific accident, and about 20 learners died on the scene, his department said. More information will be shared in due course. Meanwhile, ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said that around 13 children were killed and several others injured. He said when paramedics arrived on the scene they found the fire services already in attendance. Fire services had already extinguished the burning vehicle, which was found lying on its side. Paramedics assessed the scene and found that approximately 20 children had been inside the vehicle when it collided with the truck, he said. Once the flames had been extinguished, paramedics found that approximately 13 children lying trapped inside the vehicle. Unfortunately, nothing could be done for the children and they were declared dead on the scene. Several other children were found on the scene. It is believed that these children had been pulled out of the taxi by members of the community. He said that paramedics assessed the children and found that seven children had sustained injuries raging from minor to critical. They were treated on the scene before they were taken to hospital for further medical treatment. The cause of the collision was not known and would be investigated. Meiring later confirmed that all 20 children died. The African National Congress (ANC) also expressed sadness at the accidents and said that it was a sad day for South Africa. The African National Congress extends its deepest condolences to the bereaved families and calls on ANC structures and government to provide all the necessary assistance to them at this difficult time. Parliament and the Inkatha Freedom Party have also expressed concern at the high number of deaths on South African roads, particularly over holiday periods. The news of the deaths of 20 school pupils in a minibus taxi crash near Bronkhorstspruit in Gauteng on Friday was one of the most heartbreaking and traumatic moments in our country , Parliament said in a statement. Parliament s thoughts and prayers are with the families, friends, and teachers of the young victims of this tragic accident, it said on Saturday. We are deeply disappointed and saddened that despite various road safety measures and legislative interventions South African road accident statistics remain stubbornly high. Parliament is shocked and devastated by these horrific accidents and continues to appeal for extreme vigilance, patience, calm, and strict adherence to the rules of the road. Parliament joins the rest of South Africa in extending heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families during this difficult time. Relevant authorities must investigate these accidents, which should assist with necessary future interventions to curb such carnage, the statement said. In another statement, Inkatha Freedom Party spokesman Joshua Mazibuko said road deaths were a national crisis. Reacting to the deaths of the pupils of the Sizakele Primary School in Sokhulumi village on the border of Gauteng and Mpumalanga who were burnt to death in Friday s minibus taxi crash, he said: Our roads have become cemeteries. Scores of the young and the old get mowed down almost daily and it seems the remedy is not about to come. The IFP believes that it is time the government declared the carnage on our roads a national crisis; for indeed it is. This calls for extraordinary measures from the government. The IFP is deeply pained by this tragedy. Our hearts are with all the bereaved families and those who are in hospitals, Mazibuko said. ALSO READ: MEC Lesufi left feeling &#8216;shocked&#8217;, &#8216;betrayed&#8217; by minibus accident For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.