The 23-year-old man arrested for allegedly plotting to assassinate SA government officials perceived as beneficiaries of state capture, including cabinet ministers, members of state owned entities and prominent South Africans will appear in court on Friday. When the suspect was arrested on Wednesday, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) said in October investigators intercepted communication of possible assassinations, which were being planned. As many as 19 people were allegedly targeted. Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the Hawks acted on the information they received and conducted undercover operations in both Pretoria and Johannesburg which lead to the arrest. The suspect and a founder member of the Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance (ASCDSA) was arrested on the 26th April 2017 in Midrand while he was busy explaining to the donors how the assassination of state capture beneficiaries was going to be carried out by the undercover coup plot snipers, Mulaudzi said. The communication intercepted by the investigators included various letters which were sent to selected companies to donate money at a total amount of R140m to fund the alleged clandestine operation. Mulaudzi said that the names of the affected individuals would only be divulged in court. However, an ANN7 television news report on Thursday suggested that President Jacob Zuma s name was on the hit list along with the Guptas and former Eskom boss Brian Molefe. The Guptas, who are widely accused of having undue influence on Zuma, own ANN7. Mulaudzi said during the ongoing investigation another group, the Anti-White Monopoly Capitalists Regime (AWMCG) surfaced which necessitated a two prong investigation approach. It was discovered that the AWMCG used the same operandi soliciting donations in order to assassinate senior government officials and other South African citizens. Four individuals were allegedly targeted for this operation, their names will also be revealed in court, Mulaudzi said. He said during a search at the accused s house evidentiary proof was found and confiscated. Hawks investigations revealed that there were other companies the accused solicited funds from using same modus operandi. The accused, who is now thought to be 10 years older than initially reported, is expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court on Friday, facing charges of conspiracy to commit murder and other charges related to plotting a coup. Mulaudzi said the Hawks will oppose bail. ALSO READ: Man nabbed for allegedly plotting to kill &#8216;state capture beneficiaries&#8217; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.