The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in KwaZulu-Natal has said it will refuse to offer an unconditional and unequivocal apology to the family of late ANC struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada for disrupting his memorial service in Durban despite potentially facing legal action. They were given a deadline of 4pm on Saturday to do so by lawyers for the Active Citizens&#8217; Movement (ACM), but the league asked to meet with the ACM to instead offer their side of the story. They believe their actions were justified. The ACM, which organised last Sunday s memorial service at Durban s Sastri College, demanded the apology after some of the league&#8217;s members booed axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize at the service. The ANCYL was allegedly violating a Durban High Court order that barred it from disrupting the service. ACM lawyer Viren Singh wrote a letter to the ANCYL s attorneys, stating there was overwhelming evidence indicating the unlawful conduct constitutes an attack on the rule of law and the constitution and calls for an appropriate response and censure . Despite this, Singh said they had decided to give the ANCYL an opportunity to apologise, according to the ACM s terms, before going the litigation route. The ANCYL was ordered to confirm its response in writing by 4pm on Saturday if it wished to avoid a court case. The league booed Gordhan and Mkhize because they were unhappy with both men for having criticised President Jacob Zuma. The ACM, which organised last Sunday s memorial service at Durban s Sastri College, demanded the apology after some of the league&#8217;s members booed axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize at the service. The ANCYL was allegedly violating a Durban High Court order that barred it from disrupting the service. ACM lawyer Viren Singh wrote a letter to the ANCYL s attorneys, stating there was overwhelming evidence indicating the unlawful conduct constitutes an attack on the rule of law and the constitution and calls for an appropriate response and censure . Despite this, Singh said they had decided to give the ANCYL an opportunity to apologise, according to the ACM s terms, before going the litigation route. The ANCYL was ordered to confirm its response in writing by 4pm on Saturday if it wished to avoid a court case. The league booed Gordhan and Mkhize because they were unhappy with both men for having criticised President Jacob Zuma.