The Abidjan-born winger switched international allegiance this year, playing for the Ivory Coast at the Africa Cup of Nations having previously been capped twice by England in friendlies. Senegalese Sadio Mane scored for Liverpool in a 3-1 Merseyside derby victory over Everton before being injured and Kenyan Victor Wanyama of Tottenham Hotspur was another injury victim. ENGLAND WILFRIED ZAHA (Crystal Palace) He breathed new life into the title race and boosted Palace&#8217;s survival hopes with an inspired display in a stunning 2-1 win at Chelsea. Antonio Conte&#8217;s side had won their past 10 league games at Stamford Bridge and were on course for number 11 when Cesc Fabregas put them ahead after just five minutes. But Zaha had other ideas. He produced a fine solo finish to equalise in the ninth minute, turning and slamming home from the edge of the penalty area. Zaha set up Christian Benteke to put Palace ahead 91 seconds later. SADIO MANE (Liverpool) The Senegal winger had a mixed afternoon as he scored in Liverpool&#8217;s 3-1 win over Everton, but then came off with a second-half injury at Anfield. Mane put Liverpool ahead in the eighth minute when he played a one-two with Roberto Firmino and finished off an angled run with a shot into the far corner. Mane&#8217;s 13th goal of the season was followed by frustration for Liverpool&#8217;s top scorer as he hurt himself trying to win the ball off Everton&#8217;s Leighton Baines. WILFRIED NDIDI (Leicester) The Nigeria midfielder bagged Leicester&#8217;s opening goal to inspire a 2-0 win against Stoke that maintained his side&#8217;s impressive revival under new boss Craig Shakespeare. Ndidi got them up and running at the King Power Stadium against Stoke with a fine curling effort from 25 yards past Stoke goalkeeper Lee Grant in the 25th minute. VICTOR WANYAMA (Tottenham) The Kenya midfielder could be sidelined for several weeks after suffering a back injury in Tottenham&#8217;s 2-0 win at Burnley. Wanyama has been a key figure for Tottenham with his muscular presence in central midfield, but may be absent for the most important part of the season. With Tottenham seven points behind leaders Chelsea in the title race, Wanyama will be sorely missed if he can&#8217;t recover from the 44th-minute injury. SPAIN UCHE AGBO (Granada) Nigerian midfielder Uche had a night to forget against Barcelona as he was sent off eight minutes from time after two bookable offences. Barca ran out 4-1 winners to leave Granada closer to relegation. THOMAS PARTEY (Atletico Madrid) Ghana international Partey made just his third league start of the season as Atletico&#8217;s upturn continued with a 2-0 win at Malaga. However, the midfielder failed to make his mark and was replaced after 53 minutes by Angel Correa. ITALY KHOUMA BABACAR (Fiorentina) The Senegalese international made an instant impact in Fiorentina&#8217;s 1-0 win over Bologna, coming off the bench at half-time to head in a cross from Hrvoje Milic on 51 minutes. It was his sixth goal of the season. GERMANY PIERRE-EMERICK AUBAMEYANG (Borussia Dortmund) The Gabon striker celebrated his goal in the 1-1 draw against Schalke by donning a black and orange mask &#8212; then promptly fell offside with the club&#8217;s bosses. The Gabon hot-shot has scored 24 goals to make him the league&#8217;s joint top scorer alongside Bayern Munich&#8217;s Robert Lewandowski, but his mask was identical to the one he wore in an advert for sponsor Nike. Dortmund are sponsored by rival brand Puma and Aubameyang tested Borussia&#8217;s chiefs&#8217; patience last month by having the Nike logo shaved into his head. NABY KEITA (RB Leipzig) Guinea midfielder Keita collapsed after a Bundesliga match with circulation problems three weeks ago, but capped his return with two goals in an outstanding display in a 4-0 win against Darmstadt. FRANCE PREJUCE NAKOULMA (Nantes) The Burkina Faso forward grabbed both goals as Nantes downed Angers 2-1 to surpass the 40-point barrier for the season. Nakoulma converted an Emiliano Sala cross to give Nantes a 47th-minute lead before adding a quick-fire second after scooping the ball over Angers goalkeeper Mathieu Michel. BENJAMIN MOUKANDJO (Lorient) The Cameroon striker netted his 10th goal of the season to secure a vital 1-0 win at home to Caen that moved Lorient off the foot of the table. Moukandjo pounced on a mistake from Tunisian defender Alaeddine Yahia to score the only goal of the game on 29 minutes.