Scores of Save South Africa activists were protesting outside the National Treasury building in central Pretoria on Tuesday, demanding that President Jacob Zuma resign immediately from his post. Wearing green Save South Africa T-shirts, the protesters were singing and dancing near the main entrance of treasury as several members of the SA Police Service and the Tshwane Metro Police were monitoring the protest. Right now we are warming up for Friday. We are here to call for Zuma to go. What we are doing today is just a show of what is coming. Friday is going to be the big day. We see now that most of the trade unions, political parties and civil society are calling for Zuma to go, Save SA activist Themba Masango said. We need to spread the message regarding Friday. Tell your friends from wherever they are, to come to Pretoria and we march to the Union Buildings. We want to get Zuma out. The current situation is about life and death. The effects will be felt in the future. Young people, you will see that 10 years from now, when you are struggling to get your child into university, you are going to wish that you should have stood up on this day. The activists have been camping at treasury since Friday, after Zuma fired finance minister Pravin Gordhan, his deputy Mcebisi Jonas, and other ministers. Masango said the effects of Zuma s policy will hit the economy hard. When we are like Zimbabwe, having to go buy bread using a wheelbarrow filled with money, then we will realise that we should have stood up. We will get to a point when you get to a bank but the banks tells you that you cannot withdraw your money, he said. Members of Forum 4 Service Delivery (F4SD) have also been protesting outside the National Treasury. We, as F4SD cannot afford to keep quiet while our hard fought democracy is under threat. Time for a new voice has arrived and as F4SD will ensure that the new voice is heard. Without shame, F4SD strongly supports a call for mass mobilisation with the view of restoring the real freedom which means the people shall govern, F4SD national convener Mbahare Kekana said. African News Agency South Africa &#8216;on the brink of disaster&#8217;, says Pityana For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.