There are everyday things that we often take for granted when we are living on familiar shores. When you start travelling even the most mundane tasks tend to have that extra bit of complication added to them. When I moved to Korea, one of the most homogenous places in the world where they barely speak any languages other than their own, even buying washing powder was a challenge. How do you tell a shopkeeper you want Omo or Surf when you are not sure if they even have those products there and you can t read the language because the alphabet is different? Inevitably you end up miming or gesturing, watching the shopkeepers smirking as they attempt to decipher your real-life game of charades. Most times you get exactly what you need, but when it comes to haircuts it can be an interesting experience. Ask any person of African heritage what the number one problem when travelling is and in most cases it will be to finding someone to properly style your hair. We are blessed with hair that curls in different ways and comes in a veritable smorgasbord of sizes and shapes. At home finding the right barber or hairdresser is not a problem, but abroad it takes on a whole new meaning. Living in Asia, where most people have bone straight, jet black hair, treating African hair is like dealing with something from another planet. For me getting a haircut has become a comedy of errors and one of life s entertaining pleasures when I travel. Luckily as a guy I am able to get away with just shaving everything off to make it less complicated. The relief the barbers feel when I tell them I want my head shaved is tangible. I ve had my hair cut in countless countries and it s always the same. I walk in and am greeted by stares and then silence. The barbers all look at each other trying to non-verbally egg someone on to try and cut my hair. It s usually the apprentice who ends up doing it. It s easy for things to get lost in translation but thank the stars all clippers use the same comb sizes so they understand when you say you want zero all around. I wiggle with delight when the barber touches my hair for the first time. They are always shocked at how bouncy it is. Initially they always seem somewhat afraid to press down on my scalp. As if my hair will fight back. I always have to tell them they can press harder, it won t bite them. I ve had acquaintances that have been given new hairlines all because barbers were not quite sure what to do with that hair. For females the situation is confounded. Especially when most Asians assume your hair is permed and don t realise that it is naturally that curly. My partner has given several hair professionals abroad a chance and always come back disappointed. So here is a pro tip for all my African travelling counterparts. Most places have a Little Africa and it s best to have your hair seen to there. Or else it s the bald look I m afraid. You can t stuff that one up. Dustin Jordan | Image: Supplied For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.