As we arrived, we were whisked off on their golf carts to the hotel s iconic balconies with a view of the city, where the stars mingled before we went in to watch the Broken Vows boasts an impressive cast including legendary actresses: Thembi Mtshali-Jones as well as Nomsa Nene, whom we have not seen on screen for a while and look forward to seeing. Other main characters include: Joanne Reyneke, Enhle Mbali Maphumulo, Thapelo Mokoena, Emmanuelle Castis, Mandla Gaduka, Shaleen Surtie-Richards, Lehasa Moloi, Nambitha Ben-Mazwi, Sello Sebotsane and Shaleen Surtie-Richards. The story revolves around The Moswane family (led by Matriarch, Mam Gertrude: played by Thembi Mtshali-Jones) and their wedding planning business called Yours Truly Concepts . The business daily activities are run by the family s youngest daughter Azania (played by Enhle Mbali) and Thandi (taken in by the family when she was younger: played by JoAnne Reyneke). Thandi is Lydia s daughter (Lydia, played by Nomsa Nene: a bitter and troubled woman with a bad relationship with the Moswane s and her daughter). Other members include the eldest: good son with an amazing relationship with his mother, Uhuru (played by Thapelo Mokoena). The harmless girl-chasing beef-cake who s not the brightest crayon in the box photogrpaher, Lebo (played by Lehasa Moloi). </p> Broken Vows The chitty-chatty florist Charmaine (played by Shaleen Surtie-Richards). The cunning, sly smooth-talker, Ace (played by Sello Sebotsane). The d cor specialist Damian (played by Mandla Gaduka. The fun-girl who has all the hookup and fleeks for days, for the Gawds, aspirational designer Lulama (played by Nambitha Ben-Mazwi) It was a spectacular evening and if the first episode is anything to go by, the drama series promises to be a gripping affair, filled with twists, serious one and light-hearted moments, good guys and not-so-good guys. We look forward to watching it again, ETV! Brought to you by People Magazine For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.