The presidency on Saturday denied that President Jacob Zuma cancelled the official state memorial service for African National Congress stalwart Ahmed Kathrada, stating he had not been involved in the planning of the memorial service and in the cancellation thereof . The presidency said in a statement it wishes to correct a wrong impression that has been created in the public domain that Zuma cancelled the memorial service he had declared for Kathrada. This is not true, it said. Zuma had declared a special official funeral for Kathrada and directed government to organise an official memorial service to be addressed by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on behalf of government . Zuma did not attend the funeral and was not going to attend the memorial service either, respecting the wishes of the family President Zuma was not involved in the planning of the memorial service and in the cancellation thereof. Any impression created that the president cancelled or ordered the cancellation is erroneous and unfortunate, the presidency said. The memorial service organised by government and scheduled to take place on Saturday morning at the University of Johannesburg s Soweto Campus was postponed indefinitely with no reasons given by the presidency. Ahmed Kathrada Foundation CEO Neeshan Balton on Friday said the foundation had been informed of the postponement in a one-liner . This was cancelled without any consultation whatsoever with his wife [former minister Barbara Hogan], the family, and the foundation. We have discussed this memorial with the presidency over the last few days and immediately after the funeral so it came as a shock that it was postponed without reasons given, said Balton. An alternative memorial service to honour the memory of the anti-apartheid stalwart was then organised by the Ahmed Kathrada and Nelson Mandela foundations and the South African Communist Party in Gauteng at the Johannesburg City Hall on Saturday afternoon. During the memorial, Hogan lashed out at government for cancelling the official memorial and reiterated her call for Zuma to resign. Speaking at the fully-packed Johannesburg City Hall Hogan said Zuma had gone rogue and his government was afraid of honouring Kathrada who spent 26 years on Robben Island even when he was dead. They are so fearful of his voice that they saw fit to even cancel his memorial, she said. The memorial was attended by many dignitaries and struggle veterans, including former finance ministers Pravin Gordhan and Trevor Manuel, former president Nelson Mandela s widow Graca Machel, African National Congress stalwarts, SACP leadership, and some Cabinet ministers. Kathrada was buried on Wednesday at Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg. He died on Tuesday at the age of 87 at the Donald Gordon Hospital in Johannesburg after a short illness following brain surgery. African news Agency (ANA)