According to the new police minister, the current crisis of top cops on suspension is not only bad for morale, but costly to taxpayers. Suspended officers and those declared unfit for office continue to draw salaries while sitting at home. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula plans to put the brakes on this wasteful expenditure by ensuring those on suspension have their cases finalised. He also intends to permanently appoint replacements and end all these acting positions within the SA Police Service. According to Times Media, taxpayers have so far forked out about R15 million in salaries and benefits for suspended top cops such as police commissioner Riah Phiyega and former police intelligence chief Richard Mdluli. Phiyega was suspended in 2015 with full pay on an annual gross salary of R1.9 million. In January, the Claassen Commission of Inquiry found Phiyega to be unfit to be the country s top cop following her handling of the Marikana massacre a few months after assuming office. Mdluli is currently on trial on charges relating to the murder of love rival Oupa Ramogibe in 1999. Other charges brought against him include intimidation, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice. Mdluli claims the charges are part of a conspiracy against him. Sowetan reports that Mdluli earned about R1.8 million per annum while sitting at home since his suspension took effect six years ago. Phiyega s contract is reportedly ending in July and Mdluli s is also expected to wind down at the end of this year. The remuneration of police officers who are suspended, declared unfit to hold office and who are alleged criminal has infuriated both the minister and the police union. If those on suspension reach their retirement age before being subjected to a disciplinary process, they will be entitled to claim their pensions and other public service benefits. &#8220;The Mdluli suspension is unheard of in the history of the police. The Phiyega matter is also ridiculous. What makes it worse is that they are not seen as urgent and drag on for years , SA Police Union president Mpho Kwinika told the Sowetan. The police minister, speaking during a press conference to announce the acting Hawks head, was unequivocal in his criticism of the current situation at SAPS. We have explained this [ending of acting positions] to top management. There are challenges. The Phiyega matter is one. But I say this. Before the end of the year all vacancies will be filled so we don t have acting positions. Our strategy is clear &#8230; we will deal with those perpetrating corruption &#8230; [who then get to] have a holiday, , he said. Berning Ntlemeza, the Hawks boss who was removed from his position by the North Gauteng High Court last week, earned an estimated R1.9 million per year since he was appointed permanently to his post by former minister Nathi Nhleko.