The inquiry into the state of competition in the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) market has been concluded and a report handed over to the Minister of Economic Development, the Competition Commission said on Monday. In 2014, the Commission initiated a market inquiry into the LPG sector after it observed certain features of the sector that prevented, distorted or restricted competition. The Commission is empowered to initiate a market inquiry if it has reason to believe that any feature or combination of features of a market for any goods or services prevents, distorts or restricts competition within that market. Part of the features identified as a cause for concern in this sector were concentration of the market structure, high switching costs, the regulatory environment and its impact on competition, as well as the limited usage of LPG at the household level. The Commission has concluded that some features prevented, restricted and distorted competition. These features include the overlapping and misaligned regulatory environment that hinders the ability of competitors to enter and/or expand in the market; and the speedy investment into import, loading and storage facilities. The Commission said dialogue between market participants on setting uniform deposit fees also prevented, restricted and distorted competition. Other competition hindrances were the widespread practice of long-term contracts and agreements favouring incumbent LPG wholesalers over LPG wholesalers with short-term contracts, and the restrictions on bulk customers ability to switch seamlessly due to barriers incumbent LPG wholesalers put in place. Based on the findings, the Commission made recommendations to introduce new measures to improve competition in the LPG sector to be implemented between 2017 and 2019. The Commission said the successful implementation of these measures by the identified stakeholders would be essential for an efficient and competitive LPG sector. ALSO READ: Molefe s pension payout should be zero DA African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.