African National Congress (ANC) KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Sihle Zikalala on Sunday said President Jacob Zuma should have changed his Cabinet a long time ago. According to a News24 report, while addressing congregants at the Twelve Apostles&#8217; Church in Christ in Umgababa, South of Durban, Zikalala said those marching against Zuma calling for him to resign would be disappointed, as he would remain in power until his term ends in 2019. They must respect that he [Zuma] was elected democratically and he will not be removed through marches. If presidents were removed because of marches, we would have a president each day&#8230; President Zuma will stay as the state president, he said. Last Wednesday about 200 000 people marched to the Union Buildings calling for Zuma to step down after his Cabinet reshuffle and two credit ratings downgrades by ratings agencies Fitch and S&amp;P Global. The National Day of Action march was organised by the DA, EFF, IFP, and ACDP, among other opposition parties. Zikalala said Zuma could mobilise far more of the country&#8217;s citizens. There are those who are saying he must stay. Most of them are those who voted for him. The majority of those who marched did not vote for him. To those who didn t vote for him, when we march to support the president they won&#8217;t like it,&#8217; he said. He compared Zuma&#8217;s Cabinet reshuffle to those of former presidents Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki, saying Zuma had a constitutional right to change his Cabinet as he saw fit. Maybe some of the decisions taken by Zuma now are decisions he should have taken long time ago. Zuma reportedly told the congregants that the church had a clear role to play in politics, in clear contradiction of his plea to church leaders last year to stay clear of politics after they criticised him. ALSO READ: Zuma says campaigners calling for his resignation want blacks to remain poor For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.