A large group of men dressed in ANC regalia were seen frogmarching anti-Zuma protesters at Luthuli House on Friday morning. In the video tweeted by EWN, the group on men can been seen frogmarching three protesters, hurling insults while men who appears to be wearing Umkhonto we Sizwe uniform were seen trying to protect the protesters from the angry mob. The ANC Youth League had warned that anyone who marched to the ANC&#8217;s headquarters against President Jacob Zuma would be met with violence. #LuthuliHouse #ZumaMarch 3 anti Zuma protesters were attacked here. Police whisked them away. CM pic.twitter.com/iiFKmUikio &mdash; EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) April 7, 2017 Meanwhile, hundreds of activists braved the rainy weather in Pretoria on Friday and gathered at Church Square, next to National Treasury, for the anti-Zuma protest dubbed the People s March organised by the Save South Africa. After 8am, scores of the activists were drinking coffee, while others were queuing for the green Save SA T-shirts on the others. Others were dancing to loud music playing inside a white marquee. Numerous members of the South African Police Service and Tshwane Metro Police officers were stationed nearby, monitoring the protesters. Some of the protesters were waving placards written No to state capture , Defend our democracy , Zuma not my President , and Hands off Treasury . University student Eric Masango said he had decided to miss lectures on Friday to be at the protest. This is a critical stage for our young democracy. It is being tested. As a young person, I am here to make a stand that we will not allow the Gupta family to buy our country. They must f off with their filthy money. Rain or no rain, we are going to Union Buildings, said Masango. The government has appealed to the people taking part in protests against President Jacob Zuma on Friday to do so peacefully . Save SA has obtained permission albeit through court action to march to the Union Buildings to demand that Zuma step down following his unpopular Cabinet reshuffle a week ago in which Pravin Gordhan was sacked as finance minister. Other protest marches are planned in different parts of the country. Additional reporting by ANA