Former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng on Wednesday pledged his support for presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, adding that he could also win the country s presidency position should he decide to run. Motsoeneng, who is on suspension, addressed a marathon media briefing preceded by actors and musicians taking to the platform pronouncing their support for him. The group referred to him as the people s COO . I am loved by many people, I can mobilise over 20 million people. Majority of people wherever I go say I should be leading somewhere to those who want me to be president, I say it is not a secret that I support a woman [for presidency] I won t stand for presidency for now, I am concentrating on the SABC and all those who need my help, said a buoyant Motsoeneng. He said he was still employed by the SABC, and enjoyed going in and out of the SABC . Right now I am enjoying my life, I have more time with my family I take my children to school and am also invited to speak to people from various provinces. I am not apologetic about what happened at SABC &#8230; when I was there, there was money at SABC. He said he was looking forward to the disciplinary hearing and would not take the Public Protector s report on him on review. The remedial actions in the Public Protector report have nothing to do with me but the SABC, it is an SABC matter I am going to tackle the hearing. Turning to the SABC 8, a group of journalists who complained about editorial interference at the public broadcaster, Motsoeneng said the group have not won the war . The journalists sought direct access to have the court declare the SABC s policy not to broadcast footage of violent protest action unconstitutional and invalid. I am happy the Constitutional Court dismissed their application. I told the political team in a meeting that we needed to balance news you cannot compare President Jacob Zuma to other leaders; I said separate him, he is the leader and needs to be given more airtime to explain his decisions to the country, Motsoeneng said. [Then acting political editor] Sophie Mokoena even invited [veteran journalist and interim board member] Mathatha Tsedu to speak to them. I urged them to ask questions in that workshop; they did, I responded and they clapped hands. He claimed MPs were not representing South Africans any more, but themselves and their own organisations. Who is benefiting from their debates? If I was a politician, I would not allow 10 or 20 political parties in Parliament for what? They need to be reduced so that the money paid to them be invested in ordinary people s lives. We need to change the Constitution of this country we should not be creating jobs for politicians. African News Agency Hlaudi fights for Guptas, slams &#8216;captured&#8217; blacks For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.