If you have never been out of Dar es Salaam, you need to go to remote rural areas to get a feel of life there, especially when it comes to transportation.I experienced this recently when I visited my younger brother, Mwalimu Shao in Babati District, Manyara Region.I had planned to travel by either Dar Express or Kilimanjaro Express, to only find out at the Ubungo bus terminal that only two bus companies ply the Dar es Salaam Babati route.I boarded a Mtei Express bus at around 06:20am, a journey that took us about 15 hours. We arrived at Babati at a quarter past nine at night. I was to take a commuter bus to Mamire, then hire a bodaboda to complete my journey. Unfortunately, when we arrived at Babati there was no bus heading to Mamire. I decided to spend the night at a former schoolmate s place.The following day, I got to the bus terminal at around 11: 30. The only mini bus going to Samta was already full so I had to take a Noah heading to that direction but that would drop us (passengers) somewhere on the way where we would connect with another bus to Samta.The Noah s carrier was loaded with crates of beer and soft drinks, boxes full of various items, vegetables, sacks, passengers luggage and lots of other stuff. It took us an hour to reach the town centre where we were to take a Toyota Hiace mini bus, which we found offloading goods. When this exercise was over, we boarded the mini bus for our last leg of the journey. On the way, the Hiace made various stops to drop off passengers and cargo. Most of the passengers, I noted were traders who had bought merchandise to sell to Mashambani areas. The following day, I set off for Mong ola in Karatu District, Arusha region to visit my sister. I woke up early in the morning to take the mini bus to Babati where I was to begin my journey to Karatu.Despite being full, the bus stopped several times to pick more passengers on the way. At some point, students who were on their way to school, regardless of their gender were made to sit on the carrier outside. As we approached Babati, those who could not take it anymore asked to get off the bus and walk.The journey from Babati to Makuyuini covers 89.1 Kilometres after which you have to connect another bus to Karatu Municipal, which is also a 63.9 Kilometres journey. From there I had to travel another 50km to reach Mang ola where my sister lives. When we arrived at Rothia near Karatu bus terminal, the bus conductor gave us Sh1,000 so we could take a Peugeot because the bus could not take us to the end of our journey. They were avoiding the traffic police. Instead of the standard number of passengers a Peugeot carries (four), nine of us squeezed ourselves in the 504 Peugeot. Neither did the Peugeot take us to our final destination. It dropped us a kilometre away, a distance we covered on foot.At Karutu bus terminal I easily found transport to Mag ola because one of the fellow passengers on the Peugeot was also heading that side and unlike me, he was no stranger to this route.Most vehicles plying the route are 110 Land Rovers formerly used by tour companies. They use Land Rovers here given the poor roads. My journey took at least an hour and a half in the Land Rover carrying more than 15 passengers.The following day I was on the same land Rover at 4 am on my way back. I was supposed to be at Karatu before six in the morning to catch the bus to Dar es Salaam.The vehicle had to go around searching for more passengers and goods before we took off. Later, as more passengers got on to the Land Rover, the conductor opened the roof (previously used by tourists to view wild animals) to allow fresh air in.It reached a point where passengers started entering through the open roof since it was the only area with a bit of free space. Every time a new passenger boarded through the roof, you would hear someone complain they had been stepped on. It was really unbelievable!Despite complaints from passengers who blamed the driver for treating them as timber in the small car, the driver went about his job as if all that was being said was none of his business.Inspite of all this, the passengers would break into laughter every time the driver promised he would not take in any more passengers because he would break the promise every time he saw more passengers on the way.One thing I admired about the people here is that despite being uncomfortable on the fully packed vehicles, they all agreed that all these happened because of the poor infrastructure there and that at the end of the day, they all needed to travel and that they had no choice but to share the limited vehicles available.In this side of the country, travelling with chickens, goats and all kinds of stuff on the same vehicle is normal.Email: sshao@nationmediatz.com