There s one final hurrah for the Highveld feature season with Champions Day taking place at Turffontein Racecourse on Saturday, 6 May. And the afternoon will also offer racegoers the chance to taste their way around the world in the Intercontinental Village. If the thought of sampling some culinary delights from Greece, Lebanon, China, India, among a number of others, appeals then this area of the racecourse will be prime location while you take in the horseracing action. Between races, be dazzled by performances from a number of the countries represented with belly-dancers, folk dancing and the drama of a Chinese dragon as it winds its way through the grounds. The fact that some of South Africa s elite equine athletes, including reigning Horse of the Year Legal Eagle, will be battling it out on the day makes this one for the horseracing purists as well. The afternoon s action will see just shy of R11-million in prize money paid out including R4-million in the Premier s Champions Challenge (Gr 1). Other major races on the day include the Computaform Sprint (Gr 1), one of South Africa s premier sprints run over 1000m as well as the conclusion of the Triple Crown and Triple Tiara with the running of the SA Derby over 2450m and the Wilgerbosdrift SA Oaks over the same trip for the three-year-old fillies. If you re looking to race in style, a table on the City Deck always makes the perfect vantage point to take in all the excitement of the big day while sampling a fantastic selection of foods off the buffet. The Ferrari Club will be in attendance with a display of their vehicles on the ground floor and racegoers will have the chance to win a ride around the track with one lucky person set to win a VIP experience at the SEFAC Ferrari Day at Kyalami in September. Tickets for Champions Day, featuring the Intercontinental Village start at R30 and include a voucher and are R20 for Under-18s which includes a goodie bag. Tickets are on sale now at Webtickets. For enquiries call 011 681 1796 or visit www.itsarush.co.za.