Fitch Ratings agency on Friday downgraded South Africa to junk status, citing the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Finance Minister. Fitch said President Jacob Zuma s decision to fire Gordhan last week, was likely to see a change in economic policy. In Fitch s view, the Cabinet reshuffle, which involved the replacement of the Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan, and the deputy Finance Minister, Mcebisi Jonas, is likely to result in a change in the direction of economic policy. It suggested Gordhan may have been punished for efforts to improve the running of parastatals and said with him gone, these were now more likely to be a significant burden on the state s balance sheet. The reshuffle partly reflected efforts by the out-going finance minister to improve the governance of state-owned enterprises. Fitch s decision follows four days after S&amp;P Global downgraded South Africa s credit rating to junk status, and was widely expected. It announced in a statement: The Short-Term Foreign-and Local-Currency IDRs and the rating on the short-term local-currency securities have been downgraded to B from F3 . The Country Ceiling has been revised down to BBB- from BBB . News of the Fitch downgrade came as businesses around South Africa put out statements putting a brave face on things in the face of fallout on their own ratings from the S&amp;P downgrade earlier in the week. Nedbank and Barclays Africa on Thursday said the knock-on effect on their own ratings had been expected since any changes to sovereign ratings were automatically reflected in the bank s ratings. Both banks told investors that their balance sheets were strong and they were sufficiently capitalised to deal with the downgrades. On Friday it was the turn of Eskom, the national power company, and Transnet, the state-owned rail operator, to issue statements attempting to reassure the markets they were well-placed to withstand the knock-on effects on their own ratings. Ironically, Eskom expressed confidence that it would weather the S&amp;P downgrade with the support of government guarantees, a subject the ratings agencies list high among their concerns. In its response on Friday morning, Anoj Singh, Eskom s chief financial officer, said the company was confident it would successfully execute its funding plan over the next five years backed by the availability of the government guarantees . Fitch s statement released a little later on Friday also referred to differences over the country s expensive nuclear programme , which it noted had preceded the dismissal of the country s previous finance minister Nhlanhla Nene in December 2015. Fitch said it was of the view that the nuclear issue may have also contributed to the decision for the recent reshuffle , adding that, under the new cabinet, including a new energy minister, the programme is likely to move relatively quickly . The agency added that Treasury under its previous leadership had said that Eskom could not absorb the nuclear programme with its current approved guarantees, so Treasury will likely have to substantially increase guarantees to Eskom. Friday s downgrade by Fitch came as tens of thousands of South Africans marched through the streets of major cities to protest against Zuma. Fitch said better governance would be one of the factors that could prompt ratings agencies to rethink their position on South Africa. National Treasury acknowledged that the downgrade was a setback for the country but said government remained committed to the fiscal policy outlined in the February budget and to improving the running of state-owned enterprises. The announcement by Fitch is noted by government and while it is a setback, government remains committed to making sure that its work with business, labour and the civil society continues in order to improve the business confidence and implement structural reforms to accelerate inclusive economic growth. We urge all South Africans to remain positive and continue to work hard in turning this economy around. Fitch downgrades South Africa to junk status For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.