The new Mercedes-AMG GLC 63 4MATIC+ and Mercedes-AMG GLC 63 4MATIC+ Coupe occupy exceptional positions in their respective markets on every front. . They are the only vehicles in their segment to be powered by an eight-cylinder biturbo engine. Mercedes-AMG thus meets the wishes of those customers who, also in a mid-size Performance SUV, are looking for a combination of superior power delivery along with a highly emotive, unmistakable engine sound. For us, the new GLC 63 4MATIC+ is a quite special vehicle. It is no easy job designing a SUV to be highly sporty and dynamic while at the same time offering inherent extreme driving stability and efficiency. This required us to put our heart and soul, along with our many years of SUV expertise, into the development of this vehicle. . The result is a SUV that can be driven with high precision and agility and which, if required, is equally at home on a high-speed lap of the race track. With our V8 biturbo engine, we hold a decisive USP in the Performance market. What is more, with SUV and Coupe we offer the widest choice in the segment. Also, the technical closeness to our sports cars is visually underlined by the Panamericana grille, which was previously reserved for our AMG GT models, says Tobias Moers, CEO of MercedesAMG GmbH. SUV and Coupe are available as basic and S-model variants: the proven AMG 4.0-litre V8 biturbo engine puts out 350kW or 375kW with a maximum torque of 650 or 700Nm. The top speed is electronically limited to 250km/h. . The 4.0-litre eight-cylinder biturbo engine is already used in numerous AMG Performance vehicles. It is also installed in the AMG GT sports car with dry sump lubrication. A characteristic feature is that the two turbochargers are positioned not on the outside of the cylinder banks, but inside the cylinder V . The main advantages of this design are the compact engine construction, optimal response and low exhaust gas emissions. One mechanic assembles each engine in the engine shop in Affalterbach according to the one man one engine principle. The new GLC 63 4MATIC+ and GLC 63 S 4MATIC+ feature the AMG SPEEDSHIFT MCT ninespeed transmission, which made its debut in the Mercedes-AMG E 63 4MATIC+. The driver benefits from extremely short shift / response times. Fast multiple downshifts and the double-declutching function make for a highly emotive gearshift experience. A start-off wet clutch replaces the torque converter. . This saves weight and optimises the response to the driver s accelerator pedal input, particularly on acceleration and during load changes. After the E-Class from Mercedes-AMG, the GLC, too, now comes with AMG Performance 4MATIC+ all-wheel drive. This intelligent system unites the advantages of different drive concepts: the fully variable torque distribution to the front and rear axles ensures optimal traction right up to the physical limit. The driver is also able to rely on high driving stability and handling safety under all conditions, both in the dry and in the wet or in snow. An electromechanically controlled clutch connects the permanently driven rear axle fully variably to the front axle. The best possible torque distribution is continuously computed according to the driving conditions and driver s input. Transitions are seamless and based on a sophisticated matrix. Alongside traction and lateral dynamics, the allwheel drive also improves the longitudinal dynamics for even more powerful acceleration. The four AMG DYNAMIC SELECT drive programs Comfort , Sport , Sport Plus and Individual allow the driver to extensively influence the characteristics of the GLC E 63 4MATIC+. This modifies key parameters, such as the response of engine, transmission, suspension, steering, ESP and all-wheel drive. Independently of the DYNAMIC SELECT drive programs, the driver has the option of pressing the M button to switch directly to manual mode, in which gearshifts are executed exclusively using the shift paddles on the steering wheel. The suspension settings can also be specially selected if required. The as-standard typical V8 engine sound comes courtesy of an exhaust system with flap technology. It is controlled by a map and automatically operated depending on the AMG DYNAMIC SELECT drive program, the power demanded by the driver and the engine speed. Optionally available is the Performance exhaust system, which allows the sound to be modulated at the press of a button. In any case, the exhaust systems are so designed that all noise limits are complied with irrespective of the flap position. The agility, highly dynamic lateral acceleration and maximum grip of the new models are also thanks to the new AMG suspension with fully supporting multi-chamber air suspension. The front axle features a fourlink design with special steering knuckles, optimised elastokinematics and radial brake connections. Independent wheel control and wheel suspension elements enable higher lateral acceleration with minimal torque steer. The concept for the rear axle was carried over from the E 63 4MATIC+ and specially matched to the requirements of the GLC. The model-specific multi-link concept impresses with highly precise wheel control and increased stiffness. The AMG-specific rear axle carrier makes the wider track possible in comparison with the GLC from Mercedes-Benz, while the contact surfaces of the wheel bearings have also been moved further outwards. The SUV and Coupe variants of the Mercedes-AMG GLC 63 4MATIC+ and GLC 63 S 4MATIC+ are also available at launch as an Edition 1 special model. The new mid-size Performance SUVs celebrate their world premiere now, and the start of sales is on 16 June 2017.