One rainy Monday morning in February, at around 11 O clock, a police officer from Makuti Police Post in Magomeni, accompanied by three community police members raided a video game centre at Magomeni Somanga, where a group of children in school uniform were busy playing video games.The police officer and his men stormed the single room gaming centre located within a residential area where the children, all under age 15 who were supposed to be in class at that hour were playing games. A variety of games were on offer, from football, racing to adventurous movies.The police were implementing the Kinondoni District Commissioner s directive to ensure school children did not visit sports betting houses. In February, the District Commissioner Mr Ali Hapi ordered the trade and business office in the municipal to work in collaboration with the police force to arrest those who allow children in the centres.Mr Hapi s decision came after parents in the district approached him complaining that their children had lost concentration in studies because of betting. Parents said children go to the extent of stealing so they can get money for betting.The DC said some children spend too much time in the betting centres from morning to very late at night hence making them perform poorly in school.The survey done by Sound Living found out that while there are children obsessed with sports betting, matters are worse with video games. More children spend a lot of time playing video games, even during class hours. Moreover, some of the gaming centres are located close to primary schools, like the one the police raided in Magomeni, which is strategically located close to Magomeni and Ali Hassan Mwinyi primary schools.Parents and teachers here are afraid the existence of gaming stations and sports betting houses in the area are contributing to the deterioration of their children s academic progress. Instead of focusing on studies, the only thing that the children, who are now obsessed with the video games think about is playing games at these centres.While betting houses are a bit restrictive when it comes to children s involvement, things are different in gaming houses. Children are the major clients here. There are age restriction notices outside every betting house visited by Sound Living during the random survey.The survey by Sound Living found only a few children in the sports betting houses visited, while the number was alarmingly high at the video game centres.The survey also found out that while sports betting shops are regulated by the Gaming Board of Tanzania, the video game centres operations are unregulated hence putting the future of children in jeopardy. This is mainly because children dodge classes to go play the games without the knowledge of both their teachers and parents. If the situation will be let to continue as it is now, we will be preparing a generation of ignorant citizens, says a head teacher of one of the schools in Magomeni Somanga who preferred to remain anonymous.The head teacher says both parents and teachers need to control the children s gaming activities, especially during class hours. This he says can only be possible if there is constant communication among parents, guardians and teachers. The teacher says it s important to monitor the children s whereabouts all the time. The challenge is that we are dealing with children, primary school pupils, who can not differentiate between what is important for their life and what is not, noted the school head.The issue of gaming is increasingly raising concern among parents and the general public with some perceiving the business disastrous to the country s children as far their education and future are concerned.Many parents interviewed raised concern over the presence of the gaming houses in their neighbourhoods, saying their control is not easy given that most are in residential houses. They are not usually marked but the clients, children that is, know where they are located. I have a Standard Five son whose teachers reported he had not been to school for almost a week. We found him at a video game centre where we learnt he was a regular, says a Tandale resident, Ms Fatima Mzee. She says her efforts to stop him from visiting the centres have proved futile.Sports betting housesData from the Gaming Board of Tanzania shows the business has generated more than Sh30 bn over the past three years, which is a plus to the economy. But those who oppose the idea of having children engage in the games no matter how often they do, link children s involvement with low performance in school.Dar es Salaam, with 211 betting houses, performed poorly in the previous Form Four examination results, where it was among the ten worst performing regions in the country.However, apart from parents claims, no study has been conducted to link the poor performance with sports betting .Mr James Mbalwe, acting Director General of the gaming board says although some members of the public believes that his board is happy to see the life of youths ruined through sports betting, the opposite is true. He said as the regulator, the board is at the forefront in protecting children and their rights.Some of the regulations governing sports betting houses according to Mr Mbalwe include the requirement that the betting houses should not be near schools, hospitals or worship houses. The regulations also impose an age restriction which allows only those who are 18 years and above to participate in the gaming. Although the law is not clear on the distance issue, during our inspection to a premise after the operator has applied for a licence, we usually estimate the distance to make sure the betting activities do not interfere with activities in the mentioned institutions, says Mr Mbalwe.On the issue of age, although Mr Mbalwe says that it is a challenge to identify who is above 18 and who is not, the board always advices operators to ask for IDs once they are not sure about a person s age for approval.He says there might be inconveniences and some other things that are not pleasing around the business but he says, this calls for collective responsibility from the society as a whole to take necessary steps to curb the problems including reporting the inconveniences to the board. Whenever we discover there is violation of any regulations governing sports betting, we usually revoke the licence of the operator, says Mr Mbalwe.However, such is yet to happen since the board is yet to receive violation complaints necessitating such action.Mr Mbalwe says the sports betting law does not restrict establishment of betting houses in neighbourhoods since gaming is an amusement which can be done anywhere.Not for the under ageMr Ronald Shirima, General Manager of Gal Sports Betting Tanzania, which has branches in Kariakoo and Manzese concedes that the gaming board emphasises on the issue of age.He says children go to the betting centres very often demanding to participate in betting but operators stop them because letting them in would be going against the gaming regulations, which could have negative consequences on the business. We normally ask for IDs once we are skeptical about a person s age. In most cases they claim to not have one and we just show them the door, says Mr Shirima.Mr Shirima says that some players come with children in the betting houses but they are made to choose between taking the children back home or leaving them at the reception desk.While there seems to be hope in the sports betting houses and other forms of gaming like rotary, casinos and others where age restriction is emphasised, the situation is alarming in video game centres. The place where children spend much time is at video game centres because of the games played there, racing, football and action movies, says Mr George Simba, 45, a Magomeni resident concerned with the unregulated centres in town.Mr Simba says it s not common to find a child in sports betting since that is for only those who understand how it works but most children would go to video game centres where they are in control.Cashing in on the childrenThabit Mohammed, 22, a video game operator at Magomeni earns at least Sh100, 000 per day if the centre is operational from morning to evening. He earns all this money from the children whom he charges Sh 500 per a 30 minute session. No adult can come here and willingly pay his money to play a computer game. Adults fond of the games have them on their laptops and mobile phones at home, says Thabit.Thabit says it only costs a child Sh500 to enjoy a 30 minute mission game like wars and rescues or 25 minutes for a football game. According to him not many children go for sports betting but they would rather spend their Sh500 playing games. This place is special for children. I earn money from them though there have been frequent patrols by community police recently. Children come any time, sometimes during break after which they do not go back to school, says Thabit without any remorse.Regarding the impact the games have on the children s education, Thabit says, It s up to parents and guardians to control their children. For him, earning an income is all that matters.Some of the children interviewed said they were not allowed to engage in the games but they do so secretly and that they would be punished if their parents ever found out they visit the centres. Others said their parents are okay with the games and that they are the ones who give them money to go play the games. What these parents are not aware of however, is the fact that their children sometimes play the games during school time. I did not go to school today because I am sick. My mother has allowed me to come here and she gave me money to pay for a game, says Nassir Abdul, 13, whom I met at a gaming centre in Ilala.According to Mr Mbalwe, his office is not responsible for regulating gaming centres since they are not under the gaming board. When the Gaming Act was passed in 2003, it did not touch the aspect of gaming centres, probably because the technology was not there at the time, the law was about gambling only like sports betting, casinos and the like. Email: ksaid@tz.nationmedia.com