A 23-year-old man allegedly planning the assassination of &#8220;state capture beneficiaries&#8221; was arrested by the Hawks, it was reported on Wednesday. The man, a founding member of the Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance (ASCDSA), was arrested in Midrand, the Hawks said in a statement. News24 reports that the suspect was arrested while explaining to donors how the assassination of these beneficiaries would be carried out, allegedly by undercover coup plot snipers . According to the elite crime-fighting unit, 19 individuals were listed as targets but their names will only be revealed in court. The arrest came after Hawks investigators managed to intercept communication that included a letter sent to numerous companies, in which donations totalling nearly R140 million were requested to help fund the alleged operation. This after the elite crime-fighting unit in October last year intercepted communication material of possible assassinations allegedly being planned against members of the Cabinet, state-owned entities as well as prominent South African citizens. The Hawks revealed that during the probe into the assassination plot, another group, the Anti-White Monopoly Capitalists Regime (AWMCG), surfaced, warranting a two-prong approach . It was discovered that the AWMCG used the same modus operandi soliciting donations in order to assassinate senior government officials and other South African citizens. Four individuals were allegedly targeted for this operation and their names will also be revealed in court. The Hawks confirmed that a search was conducted at the home of the suspect and that evidentiary proof was confiscated for further investigation. The 23-year-old man is expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrates Court on Friday where he will be charged with conspiracy to commit murder as well as other charges. According to the report, the Hawks intend to oppose bail to allow further investigation. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.