The Congress of the People (Cope) has raised questions surrounding the arrest of Elvis Ramosebudi, who s accused of plotting a coup against the government, saying there is something very strange and questionable to the case. It does not make sense to have one person plotting a coup and being so careless and substandard about his plans. It is not a secret that the very list of those to be assassinated is a mixed bag of warring partie, the party s spokesperson Dennis Bloem said on Saturday. He said it was now well known that President Jacob Zuma reshuffled his Cabinet last month based on a so-called intelligence report that alleged that former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his then deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, were planning to embark on international investor roadshows to discredit Zuma. It is not far-fetched for a reasonable person to link the case of Ramosebudi to the said Intelligence Report. The Zuma supporters within government are well aware that there was no truth in the said Intelligence Report. The case against Ramosebudi is a cunning plot on their part to give legitimacy to the said Intelligence Report. The Minister of State Security Mr David Mahlobo denied any knowledge of the so-called Zuma Intelligence Report that was used by Zuma to reshuffle Cabinet. COPE expects that the Intelligence Agencies of this country will be the first to know about such a serious matter as a planned coup against the government. David Mahlobo is quiet. Instead the Hawks are taking the lead, Bloem said. Ramosebudi, 33, is alleged to have been planning to assassinate several members of Cabinet, state-owned entities and prominent South Africans. He was arrested on Wednesday in Midrand and charged with conspiracy to commit murder. According to reports, Zuma and Gupta brothers Ajay, Rajesh and Atul are said to be named as targets in a list which includes senior government officials who would have been assassinated. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela and former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor were also targets of the plot. Why would one want to assassinate Vytjie Mentoor and Thuli Madonsela who are not in power and call that a coup?, Bloem stated. He added that Cope was more than ever convinced that the people of South Africa will never be fooled by this desperate government of Zuma. The leadership of Zuma has become toxic to the country and therefore Zuma must go as a matter of urgency which is the issue. ALSO READ: READ: The full list of names SA coup plotter allegedly wanted to assassinate For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.