Between photoshoots, medical studies and attending the Miss South Africa pageant over the past few weeks, all while raising her three-month-old baby boy, former Miss World Rolene Strauss seems to have her hands full, but if her social media posts are anything to go by, she is handling her responsibilities with grace. ALSO READ: Rolene Strauss welcomes her &#8216;little prince&#8217; Strauss posted a photo on social media on Saturday that gave a sneak peek into how she balances work and family life, saying: &#8220;Teamwork is everything! So in love with this little family of mine.&#8221; A screenshot of a post on the official page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. On Monday, Strauss posted a photo of her little one enjoying his first time on the beach: A screenshot of a post on the Official Page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. Strauss said she finished her last call in casualties on April 2 and started on a new rotation. She further expressed her gratitude at working with the nurses posing with her in the photograph which she posted on her Facebook page. A screenshot of a post on the official page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. But despite her enjoyment at her medical learning and other experiences, Strauss captured her joy of coming home to her little boy, who she called her &#8220;new favourite person&#8221;. A screenshot of a post on the official page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. At the end of last month, Strauss was looking glamorous at Sun City as the Miss South Africa finalists battled out the competition and the new Miss South Africa, Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, was crowned. A screenshot of a post on the Official Page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. &nbsp; A screenshot of a post on the official page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. However, Strauss does also let her followers know when things get tough: A screenshot of a post on the Official Page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. A screenshot of a post on the Official Page of Miss World 2014, Rolene Strauss on Facebook. ALSO READ: Blisters don&#8217;t get SA&#8217;s Mackay down as she tackles fourth leg of desert marathon For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.