Cosatu has a dilemma as some of its union affiliates have refused to be addressed by President Jacob Zuma during the trade union federation s rally in Bloemfontein on Worker s Day, May 1. At least two leading Cosatu affiliates have demanded answers from the federation s leadership for inviting Zuma, despite its call for him to resign as president. They stand by a recent Cosatu special central executive committee (CEC) decision that they have no confidence in Zuma and he must go. The Communication Workers Unions (CWU) and National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) have questioned Cosatu s move to invite him at all, despite the CEC decision. Zuma is scheduled to address the gathering, alongside SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande and president of the SA National Civics Association Richard Mdakane. The federation further invited Zuma to come and give the ANC s message of support to its central committee, but also vowed to ensure that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa would address the committee. Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said Zuma was invited on the understanding that although they said he must step down as president, they did not have an understanding that he was not allowed to attend Cosatu activities. Ntshalintshali asked the affiliates to give their own understanding of special CEC decision on Zuma. But the CWU and Nehawu reacted angrily to Cosatu s move to invite Zuma. They want clarity about why Zuma was allowed to address the rally when the Cosatu CEC had declared no confidence in him. Both unions agreed with Cosatu that Zuma was no longer the right person to unite and lead the movement, the alliance and the country. We therefore agree that President Zuma should not address the national May Day rally on May 1 and that he must be replaced, a statement issued by two unions said. Nehawu further said inviting Zuma to the rally would create a conflicting message to its members, workers and the public in general. This possible confusion will intensify the existing instability within the movement and present a potential weak Cosatu, Nehawu general secretary Bereng Soke said. Cosatu, along with the South African Communist Party, demand Zuma s resignation after his controversial Cabinet reshuffle, in which he fired former finance minister Pravin Gordhan. Cosatu boss&#8217;s head on the chopping block for supporting Zuma report For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.