The people of South Africa must take control of the country, the Anti-State Capture Forum in North West said on Monday. The people of SA must take control of government When the state president resigns the Cabinet dissolves, this paved a way for a coalition government. We are saying let there be a coalition government until 2019. The people of SA are speaking in the same language that Zuma must resign, said convener of the forum Puseletso Molise. The forum made of the Economic Freedom Fighters, Democratic Alliance, Forum 4 Service Delivery, SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) and other trade unions also wanted North West premier Supra Mahumapelo to resign. Forum chair Bettey Diale said they share the sentiment of the North West Business Forum that Mahumapelo must resign. The premier is corrupt The government [provincial government] has no buildings, the state sold the building and in turn rented them. The premier wants to remove state money from Absa to VBS Mutual Bank, the bank that gave Zuma money to pay back Nkandla money. The forum planned a mass picketing at the North West Provincial Legislature on Wednesday, to coincide with the national call for President Jacob Zuma to resign, various protest marches in Rustenburg, Klerksdorp, Mahikeng and Vryburg before April 21. A mass rally would be held in Marikana on May 1 as part of the North West province to put Zuma and Mahumapelo to resigned. Marikana was chosen following the murder of 34 mineworkers at the hands of the government in 2012. The forum said Marikana was the ideal place for the rally because it was the latest place where government killed people. In February the North West Business Forum protesters (NWBF) called for Mahumapelo to resign, claiming he was corrupted. The premier has not denied that he is corrupt, he sent us lawyers letter to silent us. We dare him to continue with the legal suit. It will gave us a rare opportunity to go with him pound for pound to tell the court and show evidence of corruption, said general secretary Sello Mogodiri at the time. Mahumapelo dragged the NWBF to court on urgent basis but, later withdraw the matter on the court roll. African News Agency Opposition demands Zuma ouster For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.