The Guptas continue to enjoy benefits reserved for government officials as it has been found that they have the use of a private and armoured military vehicle which they can use to escape protesters who have lately camped outside their doorstep at their Saxonwold residence. Close to 800 people gathered outside the influential family&#8217;s residence on Friday to protest. City Press reports while the Guptas have withdrawn an application to declare a one kilometre radius around their property prohibited terrain, effectively banning protesters from using that area to march, they have use of a military vehicle which is understood to be illegal. The powerful family have complained that they do not believe the police can protect them and that is their reason for having a military vehicle on their premises. The company which produces military vehicles, Scipio Technologies is registered with the national conventional arms committee and is owned by Rajesh Gupta&#8217;s son, Sishank Sighala. Minister in the presidency Jeff Radebe told City Press no one was allowed to have a military vehicle for their own personal use unless it had been demilitarised, he added the matter would be handed to the police to investigate. A heavy police presence was at the Gupta headquarters on Friday as anti-Zuma marches happened around the country. Protesters took to the streets of the Saxonwold suburb to display placards exhibiting their issues with the close relationship the Guptas have with president Jacob Zuma. Black Land First, a party headed by former EFF member Andile Mngxitama was also outside the Gupta household. Tensions rose with the arrival of a group of BLF protestors who were chanting pro-Zuma slogans and trying to force anti-Zuma supporters away from the entrance to the house. At least one firearm was confiscated in an initial scuffle between the various parties. ALSO READ: How Zuma&#8217;s allies found SA&#8217;s junk status &#8216;funny&#8217; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.