I know that there are certain things that we all know are frowned upon, but I find myself on the line on some of these. The problem is that the guidelines are not as clear-cut as they seem. South African Tourism recently hosted a number of journalists for the 18th outing of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival and I somehow made the cut. We landed in the republic a few days before the festival and this afforded us the opportunity to tour one of our provinces. As our Shot Left trip would prove, we really do have a wonderful country and all we have to do is to try. Let us try and go to a part of the country we have never been to. Try and see how many capital cities and small dorpies you can visit in a year. Try and see how many times you can survive your kids asking the question: Are we there yet? Back to me needing your help. I am what some refer to as a teetotaller, so since non-alcoholic drinks are the order of the day, I got stares from the general public. It first happened when I had a non-alcoholic beer as part of my breakfast, just before we went paragliding off Signal Hill. I told those who were in my company that I was far from being a dronkie, and that there really was no alcohol in it. Yet, the stares continued, as they mentally questioned how I could do such a thing. Then as we prepared to board a helicopter at the V&amp;A Waterfront the following day, I also did the same thing and I got the exact same reaction. The question I am posing is: who decided on drinking etiquette? Why is it okay to have a champagne breakfast, but not to have a beer, alcoholic or not? I have noticed that wine lovers who frequent the likes of Stellenbosch, Constantia, Franschoek and Paarl are praised for knowing their fermented grapes, but as soon as those who prefer hops and barley open their mouths, they are looked down upon. The most amazing part of South Africa is that it offers something for everyone. As we were in the Western Cape, I learnt that whether I wanted to enjoy a glass of non-alcoholic wine in Khayelitsha or a beer in Camps Bay, and even a virgin Gin and Tonic (aka as just tonic with a hint of rooibos syrup), we have it all. All I ask for is that we tolerate each other and our preferences, no matter the time of day. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.