Three horses stand out in this Saturday s HSH Princess Charlene Em press Club Stakes (Grade 1) over 1600m at Turf fontein top-rated Safe Harbour, Fort Ember and Cape raider Star Express. Ultra-classy Safe Harbour is one of five runners from the Sean Tarry stable and her trainer ad mits she must be the stable elect. The three-year-old was beaten only a neck by Orchid Island in the SA Fillies Classic over 1800m. She is drawn at No 7 in the 16-horse field and will carry 2.5kg less than her two main rivals. Fort Ember is a five-time win ner who finished fifth behind Legal Eagle in the recent Horse Chestnut Stakes (Grade 1) over 1600m. Trainer Paul Peter be lieves the horse to beat is Safe Harbour, but added: Fort Ember is exceptionally well, has a great draw (No 1) and a top jockey (An ton Marcus). She ll run an excel lent race. I m quietly confident. Cape-based Justin Snaith, who has a string of horses at Sum merveld in KwaZulu-Natal until the end of winter, intends to bring Majorca Stakes runner-up Star Express to the Highveld on Friday to take part in the weight-for-age race, but said: I ll see how the week goes I won t bring her un less she s got a chance. I liked the look of the race meeting and will always do my best to play a part when it counts. Star Express is a lovely filly who gets every bit of 1600m easily and she s doing very well at home. I m not happy with her wide draw it s a long way to come for that draw but Anthony Delpech will give her a bit of a chance in the race so we still have a filly after wards. Lightly raced Juxtapose, last year s SA Fillies Classic and SA Oaks winner who made a prom ising comeback from a rest last time out, is the next highest-rated runner in the field. Her trainer Stanley Ferreira cautioned: This is on the sharp side for her and she s got entries in the Champions Challenge, Gerald Rosenberg and Gold Bowl .&#8221; She s a tiny filly but has a huge heart. She s a little darling! Three horses are rated 101, Bella Sonata, Intergalactic and Trophy Wife. Trainer Gavin van Zyl said he is upbeat that Bella Sonata will run a good race even though she is drawn wide. Her form has turned around in her two runs since she had a wind op, she s just got better and better, and I expect her to be in the first three. Tarry trains both Intergalactic and Trophy Wife. Intergalactic had a good prep and has been competitive in this type of company, so must have a chance. (Stablemate) Tahini did beat Intergalactic last time but was the fitter horse and there is a turnaround at the weights. He said he wouldn t be sur prised to see Trophy Wife in the mix. She had a bit of a rushed prep but her comeback from a rest was very good. His other runner is Heaps Of Fun. She s had a good prepara tion but her form s not been there in her last few runs. She will, how ever, bounce back soon and I don t think she s out of it. Polyphonic came back to best to win the Jacaranda Handicap from a wide draw recently and Alec Laird has booked jockey Piere Strydom for the filly again. Laird was unavailable for com ment, but Strydom said he was hoping for luck from a bad draw against horses who are better weighted under the conditions . The Mike de Kock stable will field three horses Nother Russia, Al Hawraa and The Centenary and assistant trainer Mathew de Kock said it would probably be close be tween the first two. The Centenary is coming off a long layoff and, although she enjoys running fresh, she ll prob ably be better over 2000m. Nother Russia is consistent and has a good draw, which is always a big help. Al Hawraa is best at 1600m the 1800m of the SA Fillies Clas sic was a touch too far. But she has got a horrible draw so will need a lot of luck. Johan Janse van Vuuren s grey filly Negroamaro will always have her supporters. He would only say, She s very well but is in a very strong race. Roy Magner, asked about Anna Pavlova, said yesterday: She worked hard this morning and did nicely. Although not well drawn, I m expecting a good run. Kilauea is another with a wide draw. She had an interrupted preparation, but David Nieuwen huizen said: She s got a lot of guts and must have a chance.&#8221;