Former African Union Chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma continues to receive VIP protection based on a threat and security assessment&#8221;, the South African Police Service said on Friday. SAPS said this in response to reports that Dlamini-Zuma continues to enjoy top security despite neither being a Cabinet minister or MP and in spite of government confirming that taxpayers would no longer foot the bill for the service since she was no longer the AU chair. A Sunday Times report revealed that the department of international relations and co-operation was paying for the ANC presidential hopeful&#8217;s blue-light convoy and security detail as a courtesy she had to use while doing party work since her return to the country on March 15. The services were extended to her only until the end of March. According to a statement released by SAPS, Dlamini-Zuma&#8217;s VIP protection from the Presidential Protection Unit (PPU) was done in accordance with their mandate and prescript. In terms of the PPU s mandate, protection is provided to the President and Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa, former presidents, foreign heads of state and their spouses. The Chairperson of the African Union is afforded courtesies given by Dirco with the status of President and while serving in that capacity, Dr Dlamini-Zuma was provided protection according to this prescript.&#8221; The statement added that additional protection being provided to Dlamini-Zuma was informed by the outcome of a security assessment conducted and ongoing investigations in relation to threats directed at her person . For security reasons, the SAPS will not discuss or deliberate on any details of the security afforded to Dr Dlamini-Zuma, or in relation to the mentioned threat and security assessment. That in itself would constitute a &amp;reach of security, the statement said. READ MORE: Dlamini-Zuma gets top VIP protection at taxpayers expense For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.