Revellers at the music festival featuring Bobby van Jaarsveld and Desmond and the Tutus, among others, watched in awe as the Time Square building sprung to life and appeared to shift and move with lighting effects. The dazzling light display culminated with fireworks bursting into the night sky. Quiet fireworks were used in line with Sun International&#8217;s community commitment. Bobby van Jaarsveld on stage The light show The light show The light show The light show The official ribbon cutting, hailing the start of a new era of entertainment in Tshwane, took place on Saturday morning. From 12h00 onwards, the festival area between Time Square and Central Square was abuzz with activity. Jacaranda FM broadcast live from the venue and there was a string of bands in the mix. Taking to the stage during the afternoon were Adelle Nqueto, Sutherland, Majozi, Bobby van Jaarsveld and Desmond and the Tutus. The music festival and lighting display were free to attend. Opening with the casino are 18 new restaurants and bars by an eclectic ensemble of South African and international personalities. Each is individual in concept and character to deliver a distinctive experience. There are three unique establishments on the upper level: Forti Grill &amp; Bar by Fortunato Mazzone (the charismatic South African chef, radio personality and owner of the multiple award winning Ristorante Ritrovo); Something s Cooking with J Something by Joao da Fonseca (the lead singer of Mi Casa and well known culinary artiste &#8211; aka J Something) and Guy Fieri s Kitchen and Bar by Guy Fieri (American celebrity chef, restaurateur and TV host of Guy&#8217;s Big Bite and Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives). The next phase, construction of a state-of-the-art 8 500 seat Arena, will be complete in November this year, followed by phase three, The Maslow Time Square hotel in March 2018. The only venue of its kind in Pretoria, the arena will play host to international and local concerts, exhibitions and lifestyle events. The hotel will offer new concept in hospitality, being a 238-room specialist business hotel, offering standard to premium accommodation. 