Advocate Richard Motey grew up in Moshi, Kilimanjaro. He attended different secondary schools in Dar es Salaam and later pursued a Bachelor Degree of Law (LLB) degree at Ruaha University College (A Constituent College of Saint August University of Tanzania). He later joined Law School of Tanzania where he was awarded a Post Graduate Diploma in Legal Practice.A part from his academic endeavours, Motey involved himself in different activities including research, providing seminars in working places, participating in different forums used to educate the community, and also engaging in academics as a tutorial assistant at Stella Maris University College.Currently, he practices law as a private advocate being one among the partners and founders of BLM Advocates &amp; Legal Consultants in the city.There are two famed advocates who inspired Motey to join the legal practice, these are; Mabere Marando and Majura Magafu. Their ability in making good and sounding arguments during court sessions was a point of attraction to the advocate.Motey has different highlights to his career based on achievements, skills, experience and traits. When we talk of achievements, I have managed to handle several disputes. Through resolving clients problems I increase my practice skills. I am proud that my experience is growing day by day, he said.On the other hand, Motey has also experienced a tough time which included overworking, which leaves him with very little time to enjoy with his family. Poor cooperation from some clients, particularly on payment of fees has been a big challenge to him.Advocate Motey said the most important skills for him as a lawyer are speaking skills (how to express your views and thoughts), drafting skills, listening skills, interview skills, research skills. These are the basic skills required whether I m in my office, or in the court room. I regard these skills as fundamental to my practice as an advocate, thus I always work hard to invest on them, the determined advocate said. ResponsibilitiesAs an advocate, Motey has different activities he pursues in his position. Firstly, responsibility of receiving and handling of client s problems; in this regard, he owes the duty of assuring him clients high standard and quality work.Another responsibility is to help the court of law reach a fair and reasonable decision. This is done through extensive research and good presentation made by the advocate to the court during the hearing of cases.The advocate explained some of the mode of operation in his practice. The time spent on file for trial preparation differs from one case to another. There are cases that require a lot of preparation, while others don t. It all depends on the complexity of the matter in dispute. When asked about the principle of Legal Aid, and if clients should have to pay for services they acquire in all circumstances, Advocate Motey said Legal aid is of vital importance thus he doesn t think that clients should pay for legal services under all circumstances. In some circumstances, clients should pay to enable advocates to survive and meet the cost of providing legal services, he added.Motey has on a number of occasions met with marginalized people who cannot afford to meet or contribute any amount for legal fees. As an advocate, I feel obliged to help those who cannot afford legal fees, if I m at my limit on offering free services, then I channel them to other legal organisations that provide free legal aid. This way, I uphold my responsibility of dispensing fair services to all, he speaks.The advocate adds that technology has a vital role to play in the legal profession. Think about sending and receiving emails by mobile phone, receiving documents via email or whatsup mobile apps, downloading and uploading materials from different sources. To me, these and other related online activities have become part and parcel of our industry, he says. On ChallengesMotey says one of the biggest challenges of his work is associated with the legal practice, including counter arguments of senior advocates, particularly in litigation. This always requires him to spend much time in research. Increasing number of advocates, poor ability for clients to meet the cost of legal services, and very competitive market in legal profession are termed as big challenges to growing firms like mine, he says.With all these, the council is expected to execute his duties in high standards. Though this standard is subjective, it is always measured by what is acceptable before the eyes of reasonable advocates in the parameters of the ordinary legal practice.Becoming a lawyer in Tanzania, particularly mainland, can take up to 4-5 years. This is 3 or 4 years pursuing a law degree, then one academic year at law school pursuing certification as an advocate.Advocate Motey talks about how he copes with busy and stressful schedules.He says managing such stressful periods isn t easy. It is only by way of planning daily activities, working hard, cooperating with other staffs and when possible, delegating some powers to junior staffs that this is made feasible. Five years to come, he expects to be running a successful Law Firm. I want to extend my legal services beyond Dar es salaam, particularly in other growing regions within Tanzania, and even beyond the country. Furthermore, as a law firm, we are looking forward to expanding our areas of concentration.