A dark cloud of sorrow hung over Refano Primary School in Sokhulumi Village near Bronkhorstspruit, in Gauteng, on Monday morning, where young schoolchildren broke down after they were told their schoolmates were among the 20 who died in Friday s minibus taxi crash. The deadly crash in which a minibus taxi carrying 28 schoolchildren and a truck collided along the R25 road near Bronkhorstspruit occurred on the border of Gauteng and Mpumalanga. The minibus burst into flames, making it difficult to identify the deceased, who included 18 schoolchildren, the driver and a groundsman from Refano Primary School. Tshwane Emergency Services last week reported that the minibus was a 22-seater, but 29 people, including the driver, were travelling in it. The schoolchildren were travelling from Refano Primary School and Mahlenga Secondary School to their homes in Wolvenkop and Verena when tragedy struck. On Monday, Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi visited the school, where he told schoolchildren and family members that it would take up to a week for DNA tests to be conducted and the charred remains of the deceased to be identified. Photo: ANA. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga and Mpumalanga MEC for Community Safety Pat Ngomane were part of the visiting government delegation. The education MEC said 14 pupils who died in the crash were from Refano Primary School, and four were from Mahlenga Secondary School. He said two pupils had since been discharged from the hospital. We are here to formally break the sad news to our learners, said Lesufi. As the education MEC related details of the horror crash, more and more children broke down into tears. Emergency services workers, nurses and social workers were on hand to comfort the traumatised children. We want to help you. The social workers will be with you. The police have taken over the crime [accident] scene. Let us treat everyone equally, including the family of the driver. He said only one body had been positively identified so far. Away from the place where Lesufi was addressing the school, several small children appeared oblivious to the unfolding tragedy. They could be seen laughing and playing in the schoolyard. At Mahlenga Secondary School thing were much calmer the students were sad but composed. Grade 11 pupil John Mdluli said he was saddened by the death of his schoolmates. An unidentified pupil goes to his classroom shortly after receiving counseling from social workers at Refano Primary School. I still can t believe they are gone. I wish there was something that could have been done to prevent that accident, said Mdluli. Earlier on Monday morning, the government delegation visited the nearby Mahlenga Secondary School, where signs of grief also prevailed. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.