Golden Arrow buses will be back on the roads on Saturday, the commuter bus company announced on Friday after it had been notified by the SA Road Passenger Bargaining Council (SARPBAC) that a nationwide strike had been settled. The General Secretary of the Bargaining Council, Gary Wilson, stated that the majority of the parties accepted the offer that was tabled and that in terms of the SARPBAC constitution, this will be binding on all the parties that are represented in the Council, Golden Arrow said in a statement. As a result of the settlement, Golden Arrow will resume services tomorrow, Saturday April 15. However due to the Easter break and the unexpected speedy resolution of the strike, a skeleton staff will be on duty. The announcement came after the City of Cape Town announced its MyCiTi bus service would also start operating from Saturday following the strike being settled. Passengers should please note that it may take a few hours for the service to settle in, meaning there may be some initial delays on some of the routes. We expect that the service will normalise and that most buses will adhere to the weekend time schedule as the day continues, said Brett Herron, the City s mayoral committee member for transport and urban development. I want to thank commuters for their patience during the strike and ask them to please bear with us as we get the service up to full speed again tomorrow [Saturday]. Buses ceased operating on Wednesday when drivers from five unions went on strike following a deadlock in wage negotiations. Labour minister Mildred Oliphant on Friday announced the strike was over as the SA Transport Allied Workers Union (Satawu), Transport and Allied Workers Union of SA (Tawusa) and Transport and Allied Workers Union (Tawu) accepted the nine percent wage deal, signing an agreement binding all unions. The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and the Transport and Services Workers Union (Taswu) rejected the offer, with Numsa defiantly announcing the strike would continue. African News Agency Translux, City to City resume bus services after wage agreement &#8211; report For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.