The planned anti-Zuma protests got under way swiftly in many parts of KwaZulu-Natal on Friday, as protesters took to the streets around the country in a bid to put pressure on Jacob Zuma to step down as president. The Democratic Alliance s chief whip, John Steenhuisen, expressed his delight at Friday s march in Durban, which ended at the Durban amphitheater, reports the Northglen News. He was joined by many residents, civil societies and other members of the Democratic Alliance who reiterated the call for Jacob Zuma to step down. &#8220;I m absolutely delighted by the number of people, it&#8217;s a testament to the depth of anger that South Africans are feeling. This was not a single political party, this was a movement by South Africans who have united to make their voices heard. They are saying enough is enough. They are no longer prepared to be passive recipients of the Zuma administration,&#8221; he said. He said he was delighted by the crowd s interaction at the march and said he was glad citizens had now started to take an active role. The Berea Mail further reported the eThekwini Municipality was working with city bus operator, Tansnet, to remove municipal buses parked across busy thoroughfares around the City. Bus drivers parked the buses on Friday morning after leaving the depot. It is believed the reason may be linked to the national mass action taking place on Friday. The affected roads included Umgeni Road, M4 North and South and the N2 near Spaghetti Junction. In a media statement on Friday afternoon, the municipality said City officials and the bus operator were working to move the buses as quickly as possible, as well as to identify the culprits and take the necessary disciplinary action. Metro police and City Fleet towed the buses to the depot. The M4 North was since reopened. Motorists were advised to use alternative routes while these buses are being towed away from blockaded roads. Picture: Submitted to the Northglen News On Friday afternoon, the Northglen News reported that a video showing, what appeared to be, members of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) clashing with the police and Democratic Alliance (DA) members was doing the rounds on social media. It is unclear what led to the flareup, but the incident occurred just outside the Pavilion Hotel. In the video, several members of the ANC try to stop the angry mob from interacting with the police and some of the DA supporters. Colonel Thulani Zwane, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said he knew about the protesters making their way down to the beachfront but was unaware of any arrests or fighting. In Ballito, crowds gathered at Compensation Beach Road between La Montagne and the Balvista Centre in Ballito as the anti-Zuma demonstration got under way on Friday morning, the North Coast Courier reports. People from all walks of life sported their South African flags and anti-Zuma placards in an effort to stand together for the country. The Ballito #SaveSA demonstration came to an end just after midday after protesters marched from La Montagne down Compensation Beach Road and gathered on the grass next to Eat Local at the Belvista Centre. Demonstration organiser Nic Jordan said they were originally expecting only a few hundred people and were blown away when nearly 4 000 joined them to voice their dissatisfaction with President Jacob Zuma. Throughout the march the atmosphere was positive, with songs breaking out and cheers of Zuma must go! echoing through the streets. Jordan addressed the crowd once they had reached their destination, saying that state capture must end and Zuma must give South Africa back to the people. After a few rounds of song and cheering, the crowd dispersed peacefully. The North Coast Courier, further reported that in response to the #SaveSA Ballito demonstration, the ANC KwaDukuza branch announced on Thursday that they would be staging their own march from Shaka s Head to Ballito. People taking part in the &#8220;Radical Economic Transformation March&#8221; against &#8220;white monopoly capital forces&#8221; met at Shaka s Head sports ground at 9am, and just before 1.30pm, Ballito Drive was reopened and the protesters were dispersing. ANC protesters defending Zuma are blocking to road on Ballito Dr at the Lifestyle Centre intersection @nccourier #AntiZumaMarches #savesa pic.twitter.com/eQY1msL3kO &mdash; Erica Abrahams (@eri_abrahams) April 7, 2017 Meanwhile on KwaZulu-Natal&#8217;s south coast, some 300 people of all ages, races and genders gathered on Marine Drive in Shelly Beach, on KwaZulu-Natal&#8217;s South Coast, on Friday morning to join in the country-wide call to protest, the South Coast Herald reports. Protestors lined both sides of Marine Drive, waving placards calling for President Jacob Zuma to resign. They also blew whistles and encouraged passing motorists to hoot. No incidents had been reported, and both Marine Drive and most shops in the area were open for business as usual. Some 300 people gathered on Marine Drive, Shelly Beach on Friday morning to join in the country-wide protest action. Picture: South Coast Herald In Ladysmith, 50 people gathered at the Kandahar Avenue grounds to march against Jacob Zuma as president, reports the Ladysmith Gazette. The crowd marched from Kandahar Avenue to Keate Street and returned to the Kandahar grounds. Public safety and police were on scene to make sure everyone was safe and that the march did not get out of hand. Resident Christopher Fobian was hurt after someone threw a stone at him while he was marching, but other than that, no one was injured. Once they were back in Kandahar Avenue, the marchers dispersed. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.