Although delegates at the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) founding conference in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni this weekend agreed on pressing national matters such as expropriation of land without compensation, transformation of the economy, the fight against corruption, and neo-liberalism , the new federation decided to refer its political stance to an internal commission for further discussion. Debating the state of the economy and the current political climate, most delegates pointed out that fighting corruption and state capture , allegedly by the wealthy, politically-connected Gupta family, would be futile if President Jacob Zuma remained at the helm. Food and Allied Workers Union (Fawu) deputy general secretary Moleko Phakedi said Zuma and his administration could not be ignored, as he is a crisis himself . We want to define the current political and economic crisis, and Zuma is a crisis himself that is where we have to start. He is a crisis in a party he leads and the government he runs. Whether his removal would yield the attainment of working class interests or not is another argument, said Phakedi. The present crisis manifests itself out of the governing party s problems which is driven by a dominant, capitalist class in that party that is corrupt in nature and has changed the nature and character of that party from the one we knew before. The changed African National Congress would therefore not drive forward the interests of the poor and the working class, but that of a dominant faction that was capitalist and corrupt. Fawu had accepted the notion that the ANC was incapable of working to improve workers conditions, he said. Newly elected Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi said all political and economic matters raised would be interrogated by an internal team. We have taken issues on what should be the central demands by the working class. Salipswu [South African Liberated Public Sector Workers Union] raised a further question of guarding against going into coalitions that do not drive the central objectives of the working class, and I think everyone agrees with Salipswu on this and in backing Numsa [National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa] in relation to that question, Vavi said. Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim said earlier that any action should start with implementation of the Freedom Charter. He further argued that the federation s political alternative should be the United Front (UF) to take our struggle forward . The UF was formed by Numsa as a leftist political party for workers. What we need is real radical economic transformation not the new nonsense being spoken about these days. We must link shop floor struggles with community struggles, move from plant to plant to simplify this for workers and address community general meetings with a clear demand that we want full implementation of the Freedom Charter, nationalisation of minerals we must also demand that this government stop dumping of goods here and ban exporting jobs to China, Jim said to loud applause. He added that Numsa was not a supporter of axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan due to the anti-job creation and no pro-poor a policies he advocated . Gordhan and National Treasury were at the centre of maintaining the status quo. The SA Reserve Bank that they were in control of targets inflation instead of job creation. It maintained high interests rates that have destroyed jobs in this country their role has been to protect one thing only, because they maintained high interest rates they protected the value of white wealth in this country and nothing about the working class and the poor, Jim said. Another delegate said research had shown that there was no leftist political party that could win the elections outright. He suggested a coalition between the Pan Africanist Congresss (PAC), the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), and the Azanian People s Organisation (Azapo), only to be shot down by other delegates. We have realised the point that our new federation, should it come to a point of launching a new workers party for 2019, it won t win elections outright. So it is important that we work together with other leftist parties such as EFF, PAC, Azapo, the delegate said. Vavi interjected and said although he was not wrong to have a certain view, his union should have put their views down along with others before the debate. No one says what you re saying is right or wrong but you should have raised those new points a long time ago so you re out of order to bring new things through the back door, you should have raised those points so they could be taken into the summary. But the door is not closed against you. All of us agreed that we should establish a political ideological commission where all issues would be debated by the structures so we will engage with anyone s ideological input in that structure, Vavi said. The federation also adopted its constitution, which would be subject to further amendments as raised by delegates. Saftu, punted as a politically independent and worker-controlled federation by its organisers, was spearheaded by Vavi and Numsa, after they were expelled from the Congress of SA Trade unions (Cosatu) in 2015. African News Agency (ANA)