Cricket South Africa (CSA) earlier this week revealed 8 marquee international players that can be bought by team owners in South Africa s new T20 Global Destination League. It s South Africa s way of adding an international flavour to a tournament it hopes can rival big leagues like the Indian Premier League (IPL) and Australia s Big Bash. So, who exactly are these superstars? CHRIS GAYLE (West Indies) You ve probably been born under a rock if you haven t heard this chilled Jamaican s name. The left-handed Gayle has been the most devastating T20 batter of his generation and is loved by many. He has actually playing in the domestic T20 before for the Highveld Lions in 2014/15. Gayle was considered a success, smashing 257 runs at a strike rate of 141 and scoring a 51-ball hundred against the Warriors. KEVIN PIETERSEN (England) A man once called SA cricket s ultimate traitor , the charismatic England international has become a regular star on our shores again. Pietersen played for the Dolphins in the domestic T20 the past two seasons and made a massive impact. He made an incredible 401 runs in just seven games in 2015/16 before scoring another 198 in five games last season. LASITH MALINGA (Sri Lanka) The veteran, unorthodox quick is well-known to South African cricket fans. After all, he once took 4 wickets in 4 balls against the Proteas in 2007 s World Cup in the Caribbean. But over the years, Malinga has become one of the greatest T20 bowlers in history, especially because of his wide arsenal of deliveries. He s taken 314 T20 wickets in his career. BRENDON MCCULLUM (New Zealand) The Black Caps former captain has destroyed attacks all around the world. Now he s finally making his first bow in South Africa. And it s been worth the wait McCullum has already smashed over 7000 runs in the T20 format. KIERON POLLARD (West Indies) Capetonians know the tall all-rounder well. He s played three seasons for the Cape Cobras and has established himself as one of the legends of the shortest form of the game. Pollard probably isn t quite as devastating as in previous years but his all-round ability is still very handy. EOIN MORGAN (England) Eight years ago, a 23-year-old Irishman stumped the Proteas at the Wanderers in a T20 with a whirlwind 85. Now, Eoin Morgan is England s one-day captain, a limited overs specialist with a wide range of shots. His ability to vary his game will be really useful in South African conditions. DWAYNE BRAVO (West Indies) Another Windies all-rounder with a solid reputation. Bravo turned out for the Dolphins in 2015/16 and turned out to be an excellent buy. He made a 50 in the final against the Titans and bowled a crucial spell in the playoff. No T20 side is worse off with this skilful cricketer in its ranks. JASON ROY (England) The 26-year-old English opener, who was born in Durban, is a devastating hitter and will love South Africa s easy-paced pitches. He starred in last year s ICC World T20 in India and will hope to use CSA s league to further build on a good reputation. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.