This year s Auto Shanghai has proven to be a good stand for manufacturers around the globe to showcase their premieres. . Among the manufacturers that stunned at the Auto Show were, unsurprisingly, Automobili Lamborghini. The Italian sportscar maker presented four new models, the Lamborghini Hurac n Performante and the Aventador S. Replacing the Gallardo, the Hurac n Hurricane initially made its auto show debut at the March 2014 Geneva Auto Show, and was released in the second quarter of the same year. Starting with the Hurac n Performante, the sportscar, according to folks at the Italian automaker, has improved active aerodynamics, a new chassis and all-wheel drive system and of course a bettered V10 powertrain. . Lamborghini says the Hurac n Performante sets a new production car lap record of 6:52.01 min on the N rburgring Nordschleife. The Hurac n Performante is a product of our advanced technological developments in order to design a car that delivers perfect performance, says Automobili Lamborghini Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stefano Domenicali. With its innovative technology, the Hurac n Performante enhances the Hurac n family and brings it to a new level. Secondly, the Aventador S joins the Aventador family as the latest model boasting the range s aerodynamic, iconic design. Obviously with good looks comes great power: under the hood lurks a new generation V12 naturally aspirated engine that churns out an ample power output of 551kW (41kW more than the Aventador LP 700-4). Such power enables the Aventador S to dash from a stop to 100km/h in just 2.9 seconds before topping at 350km/h. A first for a series-production Lambo, the new Aventador S is calibrated with four-wheel drive as well as a novel four-wheel steering system. . &#8220;The Aventador S represents an evolution of more performance and more state of the art technology. We are debuting the Aventador S in Asia at the Shanghai Auto Show to showcasing Lamborghini s long term commitment to China market. says Lamborghini s Managing Director of Greater China, Francesco Scardaoni. China is one of the key markets for Lamborghini. Lamborghini is committed to providing the best products, highest level of services and a perfect brand experience to Chinese customers. Joining the Huracan Performante and the Aventedor S at the Auto Show is the Hurac n RWD Coup and Hurac n RWD Spyder. The Hurac n RWD Coup is equipped with a naturally aspirated V10 engine, while the Hurac n RWD Spyder offers drivers open-top driving pleasure while featuring Hurac n s rear-wheel drive technology. China is said to be the greater key market for Lamborghini, we have no doubt the Italians won&#8217;t think twice before bringing the sportscar here.