The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) on Friday, said that it will meet with AngloGold Ashanti to deliberate on the mine s decision to lay off more than 800 workers at it s South African operations. In a statement, NUM said they can confirm that they received Section 189 notice from Anglogold Ashanti to retrench 849 workers in all its operations in South Africa. NUM spokesperson Livhuwani Mammburu said they are extremely disappointed and perturbed that Anglogold Asanti is likely to retrench such a huge number of workers at the time when there is a high rate of unemployment in the country. The NUM is going to meet with the company on Monday, to seek avoidance measures. If no agreement is reached with the company on Monday we will resort to [the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration] CCMA for facilitation, said Mammburu. NUM called on Anglogold Ashanti to rethink its position to retrench and said the union would fight tooth and nail to make sure that its members were not retrenched cheaply. They must create opportunities for job creation rather maximising profits at the expense of the poor mine-workers who earn poverty wages. We remain fearless, committed, dedicated and unshaken in fighting for the mineworkers. We do not want to see mineworkers being retrenched. Solidarity Union Secretary Gideon du Plessis said the company had been in consultation with union leaders for a few months. We hope that we can find an alternative for some of the workers to get employed if not all. We however will try to minimise the number of retrenchments, said du Plessis. AngloGold Ashanti spokesperson Chris Nthite said they were consulting with stakeholders, including unions and authorities, with a view to address challenges facing its South African business. These include maturing operations with a declining production profile, cost escalations and frequent regulatory disruptions which have hampered our ability to build and sustain volumes, said Nthite. Part of this process of engagement entails the necessary creation of a more sustainable and cost effective South African business that better reflects the realities of the operating environment. While some roles may be affected in this process, job cuts will always be a last resort. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.