Not sure what apps are meant to go along with your new iPhone? Here are five essentials to download immediately. If you ve received a new iPhone (or iPad) for Christmas, or you re a first-time iPhone user, then you re probably wondering which apps to get for your shiny new device. After all, Apple s App Store has the largest number of apps of any app store and that much choice can be overwhelming. Here are five of our essential apps for your new device, which do not include the usual essentials such as Facebook. WhatsApp . Used by over 1 billion people worldwide, WhatsApp has become a communication staple in the 21st century. Not only does it allow you to send instant messages to anyone whose phone number you have (the recipient only needs to have the app installed on their smartphone), you can also phone them using the app s VoIP functionality and even video call them. WhatsApp also allows you to share documents stored on your device in iCloud or your Google Drive. You can also share contact information, which makes this a handy tool for collaborating with people around the world. WhatsApp is owned by Facebook and is a free download from the App store. Oggl . Created by Hipstamatic, Oggl is known as the Instagram for professional photographers. It lets you edit your images with a variety of filters and features you don t get on Instagram. It also lets you create galleries with photos you ve curated. You can share images to Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. You can also create a gallery and not share all of your images to the app s community. Oggl is available for free on the App Store. Pocket . Reading articles and news pieces while commuting to work (provided you re not driving) is one of the best ways to keep up with what s going on in the world around you. Sometimes, there s so much you find interesting that you don t get through all of it, or you miss a few of the articles you ve bookmarked. Or maybe you re somewhere where you don t get reception. Pocket lets you save articles and website pages to the app and lets you read them at a later stage even if you have no reception or internet connection on your iPhone. The app also has a tagging system, which lets you categorise your saved articles so that you can sift through them easily. This works if you re looking for something specific, which you might want to share on your social media pages. One of the best features, however, is that there is also a Pocket app for Mac. This means you can sync your saved articles across all your Apple devices and access them no matter which one you re on. This works only if the app is registered to the same Pocket account across all the devices. Pocket is available as a free download on the App Store. Scanbot 6 . Scanbot is one of the best apps available for iOS. It lets you scan documents by using your iPhone s camera. These images can then be shared via email, a variety of Cloud services, or even via WhatsApp, Apple s iMessage service, and more. You can also send the document directly from the app to your printer. To make it even better, Scanbot lets you edit and annotate the document after you ve scanned it, and you can add your digital signature to the document. This makes it perfect for signing all those work documents while on the go. The best part? All of these features are available as part of the free version of the app. If you want additional features, there are a variety of in-app purchases available as well. Scanbot is a free app on the Apple App Store. Strava Running and Cycling . When it comes to fitness apps, the sheer number of them available in the App Store is overwhelming. Strava is one of the best thanks to one major difference, competition. Whenever you re running or cycling a particular route, you re essentially competing against people who ve run or cycled that route before. If you do well enough, you could end up on the leaderboard. It displays the data you d expect to see in any run-tracking app. This includes calories burned, total kilometres, total time, speed plotted over distance, average speed, max speed, and, if you wear a compatible heart-rate monitor, then your heart rate is calculated as well. Strava is clearly not meant for the occasional runner or cyclist, but the free version has quite a few useful features. If you re looking for even more features and functionality, then there is a paid version of the app available as well. Strava is available on the Apple App Store. Brought to you by CompareGuru