While residents of Tiffany Gardens, Bassonia, are cleaning up after the alleged main feeder water pipe into Bassonia Rock reservoir blew, residents of Bassonia Rock are coming to terms with losing everything in their home. The Comaro Chronicle reports that the Hudsons were sleeping and at 04:00 on New Year s Day they awoke to a huge bang. Seconds later torrents of water crashed through their upstairs bedroom window sending them sprawling from their bed. We didn t have time to even think what was happening and the water was rising quickly. My wife clung on to the en suite bathroom basin so she wouldn t be washed out of the opposite smashed window while I broke open our bedroom door so we could escape. I ran down the stairs that were now being flooded with water to open the garage doors to let the water escape. Gary had to smash open the locked bedroom door so him and his wife could escape the rising water. In darkness they ran out of their home and managed to wake up a cousin who lives a few doors away. We d lost our phones in the flood and needed to call for help. Their neighbour opposite, whose house fortunately wasn t flooded, had seen what was taking place. We d only been home about 15 minutes when we heard an almighty crash. My husband actually thought a plane had come down on to the opposite house, said Laura Peixoto. The top of the huge water pipe had been blown into the air from the force of the water, which completely swept over the Hudsons home, and part of it landed on top of our other neighbours home. Thankfully they were away on holiday. The bedroom windows were both shattered by the force of the water. Peixoto phoned Ward 23 councillor Sarah Wissler, who raised the alarm and it was then she also found out the torrents of water were crashing down the hill onto Tiffany Gardens, a townhouse complex. As the Hudsons and Peixotos watched in horror, thousands and thousands of litres of water were gushing around other neighbours homes. It was unbelievable to see and, as massive rocks, soil and sand hurtled into Tiffany Gardens, we saw vehicles being smashed and swept away. The Chronicle spoke to Godfrey Maumela (Bulk Water Distribution executive manager) who was in Tiffany Gardens complex on Tuesday, January 3, assessing the damage. Clr Wissler has been amazing, working tirelessly to make sure families have food and clothing on hand to assist wherever she can, he said. Teams from Joburg Water and Rand Water, as well as structural engineers, have been on site since the tragedy happened.&#8221; The en suite bathroom where the homeowner clung on to the pedestal to save her from being washed away. Added Clr Wissler: When I got the phone call telling me what had happened I raced to the scene and CPF members were already there, assisting families. Some had to be rescued out of their units as huge amounts of water swept through their homes. The Hudsons one neighbour, an elderly woman, was rescued by EMS, as rocks crashed into her home. We ve lost everything, said a visibly shocked Mrs Hudson, as she spoke to the Chronicle reporter on January 3. I found some of our clothing and possessions down the road, after they were washed away. I still can t believe this has happened. Our beautiful home has been destroyed. Other homes in Rooigras Avenue, Bassonia, were also damaged by the water and rocks, which came gushing down first through Tiffany Gardens, with the tarmac on the road having lifted. This is indeed a tragedy for all the residents affected and I will do my utmost to see to it they are compensated fairly, said Clr Wissler. Authorities inspect the water pipe. Caxton News Service