I m home now, back from my holiday. That was it then, my swansong, my last visit before &#8230; well, my last in a while anyway. And you did not disappoint, America. You were still as big and brash, as thoughtless and guileless as ever you were, getting by on a smile, on a breezy have a great day, folks , baffled when people don t like you. I was in a restaurant with a friend, eating pizza, drinking margaritas. The food came in cardboard baskets, the knives and forks were wooden. All of it went in the trash at the end. I was at a permanent market, with lavish food choices everywhere. Finally we settled on chowder which was then ladled into polystyrene bowls, with plastic lids, plastic spoons, plastic-wrapped crackers and, just to finish it off, a big polystyrene tray. Not the tray, I squealed, but the man ignored me. &#8220;You all have a great day!&#8221; he said, handing over this environmental time bomb. Somewhere a dolphin screamed. Yes, there are recycling bins, yes, some are trying, and yet still everything is so plastic. Excuse my indelicacy, but even the tampons come with hard plastic applicators. I know one woman who thinks climate change is a liberal plot, so she makes it her business to throw away as much stuff as possible because her husband recycles and she s trying to mitigate his efforts. It s a world view that s jaw-dropping, but at least it s a view. Some lack even that. In one upmarket restaurant it had actual china the waitress, on hearing we were South African, asked if we spoke French. I explained that my homeland has several official languages, none of them French. I went to Haiti once, she said, beaming. I waited, baffled as to the connection. They speak Creole, she finished, delighted with herself. They? Was the connection she d made black people? And Creole? The diasporic language created by slaves captured like animals and dragged from the vast reaches of Africa? Right, I said. Oh America, I love you, but sometimes a smile isn t enough. Sometimes there has to be substance too. When I left, I closed the door for now, at least but I didn t switch off the lights. There really seemed no need. Jennie Ridyard For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.