The South African Police Service (SAPS) on Tuesday said circulating the video, which shows a policeman accidentally shooting a colleague in the head from behind while tackling armed robbers, was insensitive . The insensitivity of the media in circulating a traumatic video of this nature is conspired sensational journalism and unfortunate, said acting police national commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane. In a statement Phahlane said the SAPS was aware of a disturbing video circulating online depicting the fatal shooting of a police officer during an armed robbery and was investigating the incident. Constable Tshepo Tladi (35), died in hospital after being shot in the head from behind by a colleague during an armed robbery in Twala Section, Katlehong North, Johannesburg on Thursday last week. That the late officer s family has been subjected to the trauma of witnessing his death through viral video footage is regrettable and we extend our deepest condolences to them. We will ensure that justice prevails, said Phahlane. The acting police national commissioner said he has sanctioned both misconduct and criminal investigations, in collaboration with the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID). The investigations will focus on the police officers who were on the scene to ensure that those responsible for the fatal shooting of the late Constable Tladi are dealt with accordingly, said Phahlane. He said an internal investigation was under way with a view to and that disciplinary action would be taken against any officers found to have committed an offence or contravened SAPS regulations. Phahlane said should there be evidence to prove that police officers tampered with the scene or that there was any type of a cover-up, there will certainly be judicial consequences. In the video a police officer is seen firing his gun while behind a colleague whom he inadvertently hits in the head. We are extremely shocked and disturbed by the video footage which we have seen and which is circulating online. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.