The Zimbabwe African People Union (Zapu) has welcomed EFF leader Julius Malema s change of mind on his support for Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe, whom the EFF accused of crippling Africa s image. Zapu, which waged a guerrilla war along with Mugabe s Zanu-PF against the white government of Ian Smith prior to the 1980 Zimbabwean independence, Zapu deputy secretary for international relations, Msebele Zulu expressed joy that Malema realised Mugabe and his Zanu party had overstayed in power. The EFF on Monday said Mugabe&#8217;s continued stay in power was not good for the radical African political agenda. The party described Mugabe as a bastion of the reactionary phenomenon of lead to the death&#8221; that had crippled the image and praxis of post-colonial Africa. President Mugabe is not only the contemporary engine of personality cult, but he is protected by a group of cowards around him who hypocritically defend him everyday, while harbouring ambitions to lead soon. EFF said the continent needed heroes who would be able to stand firm on the objectives of the African revolution while allowing democratic practices and succession of leadership. The party also criticised the Zanu youth for allowing &#8220;an old man like Mugabe&#8221; to continue ruling. They should ask themselves a simple question &#8211; what is revolutionary about being led by a person in old age; who sleeps all the time in meetings, can no longer even hold a pen or write half a page?&#8221; Zapu deputy secretary for international relations Msebele Zulu expressed joy that Malema realised that Mugabe and his Zanu party had overstayed in power. Mugabe&#8217;s stay in power has been partly fortified by African leaders like Malema who have been singing praises and defending Zanu, Zulu said. The South African-based Zulu said they hoped that Malema would not change his tune on Mugabe like Zimbabwean politician Jonathan Moyo, who once called for Mugabe s resignation, only to later withdraw after the elder statesman reappointed him to his government. Zulu said under Mugabe s rule, 25 000 Zimbabweans and Zapu supporters were exterminated by his forces under the Operation Gururahundi, which targeted his opponents in Matebelend in the early 1980s. He said Zimbabwe has 90% of unemployment due to ZANU s hit-and-run policies. He criticised Malema for saying Zimbabwean were cowards for allowing Mugabe to run for another term next year. Zimbabweans are not cowards, we fought for our independence, and it s unfortunate that Zanu hijacked the struggle. Malema should understand that the problem is not Mugabe as an individual but Zanu as a whole, Zulu said. It is clear as day that Zanu is a Red Capitalist political party in the sense that it is structured as a socialist party while it pushes capitalistic agenda. These nationalist parasitic bourgeois have looted state minerals and built empires in the midst of abject poverty. He said they hoped to meet Malema because he did not understand the challenges faced by Zimbabweans. We hope to meet with his Economic Freedom Fighters to engage them on such issues, Zulu said. ericn@citizen.co.za The South African-based Zulu said they hoped that Malema would not change his tune on Mugabe like Zimbabwean politician Jonathan Moyo, who once called for Mugabe s resignation, only to later withdraw after the elder statesman reappointed him to his government. Zulu said under Mugabe s rule, 25 000 Zimbabweans and Zapu supporters were exterminated by his forces under the Operation Gururahundi, which targeted his opponents in Matebelend in the early 1980s. He said Zimbabwe has 90% of unemployment due to ZANU s hit-and-run policies. He criticised Malema for saying Zimbabwean were cowards for allowing Mugabe to run for another term next year. Zimbabweans are not cowards, we fought for our independence, and it s unfortunate that Zanu hijacked the struggle. Malema should understand that the problem is not Mugabe as an individual but Zanu as a whole, Zulu said. It is clear as day that Zanu is a Red Capitalist political party in the sense that it is structured as a socialist party while it pushes capitalistic agenda. These nationalist parasitic bourgeois have looted state minerals and built empires in the midst of abject poverty. He said they hoped to meet Malema because he did not understand the challenges faced by Zimbabweans. We hope to meet with his Economic Freedom Fighters to engage them on such issues, Zulu said. ericn@citizen.co.za