Play was limited to just 31 overs on the opening day of the Sunfoil Series match between the Titans and the Cape Cobras in Centurion on Thursday. Yet in that time Tshepo Moreki was able to make himself the hero for the visitors as his double-strike reduced the home side to 114 for three at stumps. The Titans had won the toss and elected to bat first, but their innings was delayed by rain and then an irritating wet patch on the pitch, that was deemed to be dangerous due to its position in the bowlers follow-throughs. Play only started at 14.50. It was one-way traffic initially as Dean Elgar and Aiden Markram batted with positive intent as they added 86 for the first wicket in little more than an hour-and-a-half. It was not going well for the Cobras, until seamer Moreki made the breakthrough and removed both openers with successive deliveries. Elgar continued his form from the Tests against Sri Lanka, in which he was man of the series, cruising to 43 off 48 deliveries, with seven fours. He was ruthless on the numerous poor balls delivered by the Cobras but also very compact against the new ball. Elgar looked well on course for a big score, so his disgust was understandable when he tried to whip Moreki away through the leg side but succeeded only in skying a catch off the leading edge to wide mid-on. The exciting Markram was also looking good as he went to 32 with five boundaries, playing sensibly and well, but as is so often the case, one wicket brought two. Having crossed when Elgar was dismissed, he then did little wrong when Moreki had him caught at second slip with the next ball, an excellent delivery in the channel around off-stump. That brought captain Henry Davids to the crease but he was unable to usher his team through to the close, the pacy Lizaad Williams finding the inside edge of a hesitant drive. Grant Mokoena has instilled more confidence in his abilities this season and he reached the close, when bad light stopped play, on five not out, while Heino Kuhn is the other batsman in, on eight not out. Moreki took two for 22 in six overs, while Williams conceded 24 runs in his first three wayward overs with the new ball, but ended the day with one for 34 in seven. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 