The Democratic Alliance in Nelson Mandela Bay on Monday, dismissed the notion of a no confidence vote against Executive Mayor Athol Trollip and Council Speaker Jonathan Lawack, calling it desperate politicking by the ANC. The African National Congress (ANC) Spokesperson, Gift Ngqondi, earlier said that the ANC would table a motion of no confidence in Trollip as the party believes he is not fit to run the metro. However, Mayoral Chief of Staff, Kristoff Adelbert, said that the ANC had not submitted any prior notice in this regard hence the motion would not even be heard. This is desperate politicking that has no merit and it is clear that the ANC needs to familiarise themselves with the rules of council, said Adelbert. The rules state a Municipal Council may, by resolution remove its executive mayor/ deputy executive mayor or speaker from office. Prior notice of an intention to move a motion for the removal of the executive mayor/ deputy executive mayor or speaker must be given . The metro is currently run under a newly formed coalition government comprising of the United Democratic Movement (UDM) and the DA. Last week, a special council meeting collapsed following a disagreement between Trollip (DA) and his deputy Mongameli Bobani (UDM). Bobani reportedly wants the current City Manager Johann Mettler removed from his position and a replacement sought. He is also reportedly unhappy with the appointment of corporate services boss Vuyo Zitumane and the sacking of former corporate services boss Mod Ndoyana. Ngondi said that the party would be banking on the support from other political parties to pull it off. He said the ANC were essentially banking on two votes from the UDM. Ngondi also raised grievances on the appointment of City Manager Johann Mettler, adding that the procedure around his appointment was flawed . However, Nelson Mandela Bay ANC Party Leader, Bicks Ndoni, told ANA that the party had no intention of bringing a vote of no confidence against Trollip. I can officially confirm that we will not bring a motion of no confidence to council meeting. We will just continue with our work and the items on the agenda, said Ndoni. -African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.