Its longevity says it all. Last year s ogle-worthy production of Joseph and his Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat is one of the biggest theatre hits and that accolade is extending into 2017. The show hasn t lost any of its sparkling, over-the-top exuberance in fact, it seems to have gained momentum. Considering the cast have been performing their roles non-stop for nearly a year, they also tackle three exhausting performances every Saturday yet the production refuses to be tired. Last Saturday I decided to go watch Joseph again because between paying R90 for a movie ticket that helps line the pockets of American film studios or R150 to support local performing art, the second option won hands down. During the performance, I made a few mental notes on why you have to see Joseph and His Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. If you ve already seen it, think of these as reasons to see it again! Earl Gregory Starring as Joseph comes with a lot of responsibilities, and Gregory knows how to get the audience eating from his hand. The fact that he keeps up with the high-energy production leads me to suspect that in between scenes he can be seen panting backstage. Gregory has a sort of innocence about him that has made him not only the best choice for this production but an exciting Joseph period. He will charm your socks off. This is also Gregory s second time playing Joseph in a professional production. Jonathan Roxmouth, Richard Gau and Anton Luitingh Just shy of 30, Jonathan Roxmouth has dominated the theatrescape for years and his stint as Pharaoh is a testament to why he has such a huge following. In a smaller-than-usual role, he emerges at the end as an audience favourite. He is, however, hanging up his Pharaoh crown when he rejoins the cast of West Side Story later this month. In Roxmouth s absence Anton Luitingh will takeover the role. He s played Pharaoh a number of times, and judging by his previous work, he can easily steal the spotlight. Richard Gau has also been alternating in the role and will continue to play Pharoah at some performances. Gau is one of the up-and-coming leading men from the Pieter Toerien Productions stable, so keep an eye out for him. Luitingh plays Pharoah until January 29 in Johannesburg, and from February until March 11 in Port Elizabeth and Cape Town. Gau takes over the role on Thursdays. N dine Last year s production starred Bianca le Grange in the important role as the narrator. For the show s second coming at the Pieter Toerien Montecasino Theatre, pop star N dine was announced as her successor. N dine brings a softness to the role, that is, dare I say it, much needed. This production relies on high levels of camp, catchy melodies and a quick-paced story that you need someone toned down to bring balance to the exciting show. The singer also knows a thing or two about pitch. She s an excellent addition to a brilliant cast. The right price It won t cost you an arm and a leg to watch Joseph. Ticket prices can go for as little as R90, peaking at R350 in Joburg and Cape Town, and R250 at the Port Elizabeth Opera House. The best news is that there will be no price increases for the 2017 season of Joseph, and there are many family packages and group reductions available. There s no excuse to miss it. Venolia Manale The pint-sized actress is a breath of fresh air in the male dominated cast. She also makes one of the biggest entrances in the show when she enters on a hoverboard. If you want to see a performer truly enjoy what she is doing, Venolia is the one. Info The show is on at the Pieter Toerien Montecasino Theatre until January 29. It runs at the Port Elizabeth Opera House from February 2 until February 12. It returns to Theatre on the Bay in Cape Town on February 17, and ends its run on April 8. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.