The City of Cape Town has urged residents to use boreholes and well-points responsibly and sparingly. While the extraction of groundwater remains free, responsible water habits should still apply as this is not an unlimited resource, mayoral committee member for informal settlements, water and waste services, and energy Xanthea Limberg said on Sunday. Due to the current severe drought being experienced across the country and the low levels of dams, residents had been encouraged to shift to using alternative water sources. The restrictions on the use of potable water had motivated many residents to install either boreholes or well-points to tap into Cape Town s groundwater resources to supplement their potable supply, as well as to save money, she said. However, the City encouraged residents to please use groundwater sparingly as this was not an unlimited resource. If too much groundwater was extracted too quickly it may become depleted. The uptake of boreholes and well-points is very useful in taking pressure off our dams at a time when they are reaching dangerously low levels. However, it is important that we utilise it responsibly. For this reason, the city is recommending that customers with boreholes restrict their watering to the hours prescribed in the restrictions, or at the very least limit their watering to the early mornings and late evenings to avoid evaporation, Limberg said. Although national government was the custodian of water resources and responsible for regulating and controlling/restricting use directly from the resource, the city would be lobbying them to more tightly regulate this resource as more and more residents elected to explore groundwater extraction for domestic use. Residents who wanted to use groundwater were advised that they would need to apply to sink a new borehole or well-point at least 14 days before installation. Information on how to apply could be found here Residents were also reminded that once installed boreholes would need to be registered. Information on how to register could be found on http://tinyurl.com/jt8ac72 Application for and registration of boreholes helps us gather information for environmental monitoring and research purposes and is not in place so that residents can be charged. Water use from boreholes and wells remains free. As a thank you, the city will send applicants and those who register their boreholes a certificate of appreciation and a free weather-proof display sign, Limberg said. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.