South African Trade and Industry (dti) Minister Dr Rob Davies has made his way from the World Economic Forum s Annual Meeting in Switzerland to the United Kingdom for a two-day visit to showcase opportunities for investment in some of the country s priority sectors and to engage in important dialogue. In a statement, Davies said the visit, from 23-24 January, was intended to engage the UK government on Brexit transaction, showcase opportunities for investment in some of South Africa s priority sectors, including Business Process Services (BPS) and renewable energy, as well as to engage those importing agricultural produce from South Africa . Davies added that the trip would encompass some investment aftercare, as well as engagement with companies still considering investment in South Africa. His schedule would begin with a session attended by a number of Africa analysts from investment banks and consulting firms based in London. The session is set to be hosted by the Royal Institute for International Affairs, also called Chatham House. The session will provide us with an opportunity to engage in a discussion with those forming in-house strategies on engaging Africa. It will assist with reinforcing the message that South Africa is open for business and engaging actively on the continent to enhance prosperity for all, said Davies. The session would also touch on South Africa s economic outlook, which would cover SA s own ambitions to diversify its trade relationships, the dti s role in promoting the African agenda, and strengthening intra-African trade and SA-UK trade relations in the context of changing trade priorities post-Brexit. Davies is also set to attend a BPS luncheon with industry players where he will engage players in the BPS community after SA was named Outsourcing Destination of the Year at the 2016 Global Sourcing Association Awards. This will be followed by a multi-sectoral dinner for discussion on South Africa s view of the WEF and what it foresees for the coming year. Davies is further scheduled to deliver a speech on the key drivers of South African economic growth, as well as to emphasise available investment and trade opportunities. He will also attend a financial services breakfast, Africa All Party Parliamentary Group, renewable energy investor luncheon and a roundtable on agriculture with UK importers and buyers, before concluding his visit with a bilateral meeting with his UK counterpart, Secretary for International Trade, Liam Fox. African News Agency (ANA)