For your information, we are few months away from seeing the facelifted Volkswagen Golf range, but reports state that the German marque is already preparing the next iteration of its iconic hot hatch, which is the Golf 8. The eighth-gen Golf has been under development for more than 12 months now and will be introduced at some point in 2019, with the spicy GTI version to follow about a year later. ALSO READ: Here s how the facelifted Golf looks When it arrives, Wolfsburg s compact performance model will apparently employ a mild hybrid setup as a way to boost power and cut fuel consumption at the same time. Citing sources close to VW s research and development chief Frank Welsch, Autocar said the new Golf GTI would adopt a 48V electrical system as well as an integrated starter motor. Underneath the hood will reside the familiar turbocharged 2.0-litre gasoline engine, but it will be significantly modified to accommodate an electrically operated compressor replacing the exhaust gas turbocharger installed in the current model. This significant hardware change will pay dividends in terms of low-end power, while torque is going to be available across a wider rpm range. It is believed the combustion engine is going to be hooked to a standard dual-clutch, seven-speed gearbox, with no word at this moment on the availability of a manual. Rumour has it there will be an electric motor that will kick in to boost total output after turning on the performance mode. The report mentions early performance targets are showing a combined output similar to the GTI Clubsport introduced in 2015 with 195kW and equipped with an overboost function bumping output to 213kW for about 10 seconds. Don t worry about the extra hardware adding weight to the Golf GTI because the optimised MQB platform is expected to shave off about 50 kilograms over the current seventh-gen model. The GTI family might be expanded towards the end of the decade, considering VW s sales, and marketing boss J rgen Stackmann recently hinted at doing an all-electric GTI. If approved for production, the new model will become a member of the forthcoming lineup of EVs previewed by the ID concepts. &nbsp;