Mozambique s failure to pay US$59.8 million in interest on a sovereign Eurobond points to an extended period of uncertainty as the country seeks to restructure its debt, the Fitch ratings agency says. It has no sovereign rating impact because Fitch already downgraded Mozambique s long-term foreign currency issuer default rating to RD in November after confirmation that a state-owned enterprise missed a payment on a sovereign-guaranteed loan in May 2016, the agency said in a statement. Mozambique s economy and finance ministry announced on January 16 that it would not make the payment on its 10.5 percent dollar-denominated bond maturing in 2023. The ministry said Mozambique s debt payment capacity was extremely limited in 2017 and did not allow room to make the scheduled interest payment. This indicated that payment during the 15-day grace period was unlikely, Fitch said. A presentation to creditors published by the Mozambican authorities late in October 2016 implied a potential renegotiation of external debt to private creditors. The presentation said that Mozambique s primary objective was to resume relations with the IMF [International Monetary Fund] to stabilise the economy and restore [the] confidence of the international community , but this would require putting government and government-guaranteed debt on a sustainable path. However, it was unclear when and how negotiations with creditors might proceed. Bondholders still wanted details of potential IMF support and an audit of Mozambique s state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to be completed before they would discuss debt restructuring, Bloomberg reported, citing an advisor to a group of bondholders who added they might hold preliminary talks . It was unclear how potential inter-creditor disputes may play out, Fitch said. The process of curing Mozambique s default is therefore likely to be protracted. If Mozambique completes a debt restructuring with private creditors and issues new securities, we would raise its IDR from RD . Ratings would be assigned to the new securities to reflect our assessment of Mozambique s credit profile. The Eurobond contains a collective action clause in which any modifications or actions (including payments) may be made with the consent of 75 percent of bondholders. An important component of our assessment would be whether debt to multilateral financial institutions and bilateral lending is rescheduled or restructured, as this represents around 83 percent of total external public debt (of which a quarter is held by the World Bank). Public debt has increased at one of the fastest rates of all rated sovereigns in the past three years, partly due to depreciation of the country s currency (the metical), and was 130 percent of GDP at end-2016, double the B / C / D median. Restructuring of only commercial debt would leave Mozambique with relatively high public sector debt. Recent rebounds in commodity prices may offer some support to Mozambique s fiscal and external position in 2017, as would fresh IMF support. But Fitch s assessment would also take into account the recent history of very weak debt management and transparency, Fitch said. African News Agency (ANA)