South Africa is in urgent need of a rural safety policing strategy and a specialised rural safety unit in the South African Police Service (SAPS) needs to be re-established, the Democratic Alliance said on Sunday. On Friday, Mr Hannes Kidson and his wife Ester Kidson, both 69 years old, were brutally murdered on their farm Oortjies between Jachtsfontein and Westonaria in Gauteng, she said. Ester Kidson, who recently had a hip replacement and was in a wheel chair, had her throat cut. Hannes Kidson was found dead in his work shed, also with his throat cut. The DA extends its condolences to the family, friends, and loved ones of both Mr and Mrs Kidson. You are in our thoughts during this most difficult time, Steyn said. It was clear that South Africans living in rural areas, farmers and farm workers alike, were facing extreme danger. According to information provided in a parliamentary reply the SAPS noted 49 farm murders in the past year. The number of murders, according to agricultural union the TLU, was as high as 72 during this same time. South Africa is in urgent need of a rural safety policing strategy that finally takes this reality into consideration. The DA has repeatedly called for the re-establishment of a specialised rural safety unit in the SAPS so that this can finally happen to no avail. This need was confirmed by a report by the South African Human Rights Commission released in October 2015. The report found that: Law enforcement agencies such as the SAPS and the National Prosecuting Authority should step up their involvement in combating crimes against farming communities; The SAPS should submit periodic progress reports on crime in farming communities to the SAHRC; The rural development and land reform department should provide a policy brief on the current status of land tenure in the farming communities and establish the standard of housing delivered to farm workers and dwellers; this standard needed to be guided by the principles of dignity; and The justice and constitutional development department should include farming communities in the Promotion of the Rights of Vulnerable Groups (PRVG) programme. The DA would again request that this report be tabled in Parliament for scrutiny by the police portfolio committee. This was the best way to ensure that every proposal made in the report was checked against the government response since 2015. Violent crime across South Africa needs to be tackled head-on so that every person can live in peace, safe in the knowledge that the government is doing everything possible to ensure their safety. The DA will not rest until we ensure that this happens, Steyn said.