Brand South Africa (BSA) has showcased a range of South African wines to global leaders in Davos, Switzerland, on the margins of the World Economic Forum (WEF). Held annually, the WEF Davos presented all participating countries and organisations with an opportunity to position themselves as globally competitive with a view to attracting more investment and business opportunities, BSA said in a statement. It is therefore an important marketing and communication platform for South Africa and all participating business entities. Team South Africa, led by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, brought to delegates in Davos the message that we are open for business and a resilient nation brand. As an expression of how South Africa inspired new ways BSA showcased a range of wines from Leopard s Leap, Thelema Mountain Vineyard, Rupert Wines, and LaMotte Estates. The selection of wines included Chardonnay, Sauvignon Blanc, and Pinotage. Brand South Africa is leveraging the presence of the international community which has converged in Davos to showcase one of our strongest competitive assets our wine sector. Our wines are well reputed the world over, BSA CEO Kingsley Makhubela said in the statement. The WEF Davos 2017 concluded on Friday. Currently 98,597 hectares of vines producing wine grapes were under cultivation in South Africa over an area some 800km in length. White varieties constituted 54.6 percent of the plantings for wine, with Chenin Blanc comprising 18.2 percent of the total. Red-wine varieties accounted for 45.4 percent of the national vineyard. The most widely planted red variety was Cabernet Sauvignon, accounting for 11.3 percent of the total. Shiraz accounted for 10.5 percent, while Merlot accounted for six percent, and Pinotage, which was indigenous to South Africa, represented 7.5 percent. The local wine industry continued to re-align its vineyard offering in line with international trends, BSA said. According to a study commissioned by the SA Wine Industry Information and Systems (SAWIS) and published in January 2015, some 300,000 people were employed both directly and indirectly in the wine industry in 2015, including farm labourers, those involved in packaging, retailing, and wine tourism. The study also concluded that of the R36.1 billion gross domestic product (GDP) contributed by the wine industry to the regional economy, about R19.3 billion eventually would remain in the Western Cape to the benefit of its residents. Growth in contribution to the GDP had been at least 10 percent a year since 2003. In terms of world wine production, South Africa ranked as number eight in overall volume production of wine and produced 4.1 percent of the world s wine in 2015. Of the country s total annual harvest of 1154 million litres in 2015, 83.9 percent was devoted to making wine, 3.6 percent to wine for brandy, 9.8 percent to distilling wine, and 2.7 percent to grape juice concentrate and grape juice. Exports of natural (ie, non-fortified) packaged wines for the 2015 calendar year reached 167.5 million litres, a decrease of 3.4 percent on the previous year. Red wine exports increased by 1.5 percent to account for 41.4 percent of all natural wines exported. Total exports of wine decreased by 0.6 percent to 420 million litres in 2015, BSA said.