The state of education and the quality of skilled people being produced was one area where South Africa had a lot of catching up to do in order to be globally competitive. I think that is one area we are really lacking if we are looking at the quality of what we are producing, said Brand SA CEO Dr Kingsley Makhubela. The country s continued poor performance in mathematics compared to the rest of the world was well known and Makhubela said this needed to be remedied urgently if South Africa was to produce top quality engineers and the like. We keep on talking, it is an area of discussion but we have not found the formula to tackle this potential, he said. We require people who can compete on international markets. He said disruptive technologies (i.e. social media) were all being done by young people. Are we in that space? No, we are not yet there. South Africa s Matric Class of 2016 recorded a pass mark of 72.5% but there remains question marks over the quality of the pass and, crucially, the high drop out rate in the South African schooling system, with critics saying that up to half of the number of learners who began Grade 10 had dropped out by the time of the final Grade 12 exams. Makhubela, who will be attending the World Economic Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland between 17-20 January, had upon the release of the matric results earlier this month, said the steady improvement resonated with South Africa s improved performance in the 2016 WEF Global Competitiveness Index pillar of education and health. According the education and health index, South Africa had improved its performance for the third consecutive year. At the time, Makhubela said that a country s global competitiveness was determined in large part by its level of education. We are pleased that South Africa s education system is enabling a steady reversal of historical trends, he said. This bodes well for the sustainable progress of our nation brand s competitiveness. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.