The well-travelled bat of Justin Ontong gave the Cape Cobras control of their Sunfoil Series match against the Titans in Centurion on Saturday, despite the superb bowling of international all-rounder David Wiese. Ontong s brilliant 110 allowed the Cobras to declare half-an-hour before stumps on the third day with a score of 326 for nine, a first-innings lead of 131 over the Titans. The bowling of the home side was generally ragged, apart from Wiese, who stood out with an exceptional five for 41 in 26 overs. He displayed great control in sticking to a probing line around off stump and asking plenty of questions as he seamed the ball around. The Titans reached the close on 21 without loss, with Aiden Markram on seven not out and Heino Kuhn 14 not out. They will obviously be under pressure to bat out most of the final day as they still trail by 110 runs. With most of the morning session being lost to bad light, Ontong and Jason Smith extended their crucial fourth-wicket partnership to 148 after an early lunch had been taken. Only eight overs and one ball were bowled before the break, Smith being able to go to his third half-century this season, off 84 balls with seven fours, just before the umpires took the players off the field. Smith had his problems outside off stump early on in his knock, and was dropped on 13 in the slips by Kuhn off Malusi Siboto on the second afternoon. Thereafter, he blossomed in an innings of 69, showing tremendous talent for a 22-year-old. Smith was eventually bowled by Junior Dala, missing a loose drive, but Ontong continued with his highly-focused innings. Dane Vilas was caught for 15 by Dean Elgar at second slip off Wiese, but Aviwe Mgijima scored a fearless 40 as he helped Ontong put on a further 62 for the sixth wicket, stretching the Cobras lead into something significant. Elgar dived low to his left to pluck a great catch to remove Ontong for 110 off the bowling of Wiese, who also trapped Mgijima lbw to claim his 100th Sunfoil Series wicket. The big-hitting Rory Kleinveldt was then bowled middle-stump, first ball, by Wiese, giving the 31-year-old his fourth five-wicket haul in four-day franchise cricket. Siboto, who showed way less control than usual, claimed the final wicket as Tshepo Moreki awkwardly fended a lifter to the slips, to finish with one for 100 in 23.5 overs. The messy Titans bowling was shown by the 42 extras they conceded, including 12 extras in the 83rd over, which Siboto shared with Rowan Richards before the left-arm paceman left the field with a hip injury. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 