The Brits Regional Court on Wednesday dismissed an application by murder accused Mark Warona Zinde, who killed his former tv personality mother, to be admitted to the Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital. The report from Dr Weinkove does not persuade this court The application for referral is dismissed, he said. This was after Francois Joubert, for Zinde, applied to the court for Zinde to be referred to Weskoppies. Joubert told the court that Zinde suffered from schizophrenia and wanted him to be admitted to Weskoppies for further assessment. He said the defence disputed Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital assessment report on the mental state of Zinde, and roped in the service of Dr John Weinkove, who find that a CAT scan of the brain was needed and recommended that Zinde be referred back to Weskoppies. Weskoppies has the infrastructure or authority as a psychiatric hospital to refer the accused to a necessary institute for a CAT scan READ MORE: Mark Zinde loses cool in court Prosecutor Hanna Conradie said it was not in the interest of justice to refer Zinde back to Weskoppies, as an assessment had already been done. Four doctors have already evaluated the accused and made findings , he told the court. The case was postponed to February 21 for high court date to be set. Zinde, 23, is accused of murdering his mother Hope Zinde, 50, former SABC board member, journalist and television news anchor. The State alleges that he killed his mother at their home in Pecanwood Estate, Hartbeespoort Dam near Brits in June last year. He is facing a charge of murder and the illegal possession of drugs. While his lawyer was applying for his hospital referral, Zinde held his head in his hands, avoiding eye contact with four family members who were in the public gallery. His grandmother and uncle were among the four in court. Zinde is also facing another charge of assault with the intention to cause grievous bodily harm at the Vereeniging Magistrate s Court. He was expected to appear in the Vereeniging Magistrate s Court on Thursday. He was arrested in November last year, for allegedly attacking his father Dr Lebohang Manoto, at his Walkerville home, south of Johannesburg. Manoto, who took him in after he was released on R10,000 bail, laid charges of assault against his son at De Deur police station. Zinde s bail was revoked on December 19 following his arrest and revelations that he was not abiding by his bail conditions. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.