Shadrack Doshani, known as Kenny Motsamai, was placed on parole after serving more than 20 years of his sentence, the correctional services department said on Wednesday. He was placed on parole with effect from Wednesday, after the Correctional Supervision and Parole board took a decision having considered Doshani s profile following the completion of a six month day parole, the department said. The initial decision to place Parolee Doshani on a Day Parole was taken following a favourable recommendation by the National Council for Correctional Services (NCCS), to the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, the department said. The department said that in terms of section 136(3) of Correctional Services Act of 1998, the case of an offender who has served 20 years or above must be submitted to the NCCS, which must make a recommendation to the Minister. Doshani was was convicted of murder in 1989 for killing a white traffic officer in Rustenburg. In terms of the Act, the Minister has a discretion, if the NCCS has made a favourable recommendation, as to whether or not to confirm the placement on parole of an offender, the department said. A day parole is often used as a passage to prepare offenders who have served over 20 years to climitize with the new environment and effect a gradual reintegration to society. This is part of rehabilitation which comes with a set of conditions that parolees must comply with. Parolee Doshani indeed completed the Day Parole and the Correctional Supervision and Parole Board recommended that he be placed on Parole, the department said. It is important to note that Parole placement for Mr Doshani does mean the end of his sentence. He was transferred to the Community Corrections Office which will supervise and monitor him as he will be serving the remainder of his sentence in the community. The department said that the conditional release for Doshani from a correctional centre into the community prior to the expiration of his entire sentence. Doshani s parole conditions were explained to him in the presence of his lawyers and he accepted them, these include allowing Doshani to seek employment or start his own business.