Vernon Philander gave credit to fellow paceman Kagiso Rabada for setting up the destruction as South Africa blasted Sri Lanka away for just 110 to take complete control of the second Test on the second day at Newlands in Cape Town on Tuesday. Philander claimed the best figures of four for 27 in 12 overs, but it was Rabada who blew away the top-order as he took four for 37 in 12 overs, paving the way for the Ravensmead Wrecker to decimate the tail with a spell of four for 14 in four overs. Also read: Kagiso Rabada the enforcer as Proteas maul hapless Lankans Left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj also chipped in with two top-order wickets and was also praised by Philander. KG bowled a very good spell just after tea, he s got those moments, those special spells in him, and he set things up for us. It s a good cricket wicket and it was one of the strongest winds I ve encountered today. But Keshav held up his end very well and we found ways around the conditions, everyone stuck to their guns well, Philander said. The 31-year-old continued his love affair at Newlands, taking his record there to 35 wickets in seven Tests at an average of just 18.42, and Philander said part of his success on his home ground is knowing when to turn up the throttle. It was one of those days when, as a bowler, you get that feeling that everything is in rhythm and you know things are going to happen. You have to recognise it and make the most of it, break the door down, Philander said. I love playing here at the home of cricket with all my home support, there s no better place. I cherish every moment I m back out on the field and I go out and try to perform to my best because when I was out with injury I really missed not being part of it. While Sri Lanka, already 317 behind and needing to take 10 South African wickets, will be relying on miracles to avoid defeat and losing the series, this match will also be remembered for the performance of fast bowler Lahiru Kumara, who took six for 122 in 25 impressive overs in the Proteas first innings of 392. They are the best figures by a Sri Lankan paceman in South Africa. Also read: Stumped CSA seek clarity on Kyle Abbott&#8217;s future The 19-year-old is playing just his third Test, the two previous ones having been against Zimbabwe, and has played just five first-class matches with 10 wickets at an average of over 50. So his rapid success has also surprised him. I am a bit surprised but I am very happy with what I have done, although the pitch did assist me a bit. The wicket of Hashim Amla is my favourite because it was an excellent delivery it has to be to beat a player like that all ends up, Kumara said. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.