In a statement on Sunday afternoon, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) wished its deputy president, Floyd Shivambu, a happy birthday. Spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a statement: &#8220;Today, is indeed a special day in the EFF as it is the birthday of one of the foremost young revolutionaries in our generation. In him we celebrate ideological clarity, revolutionary discipline, selflessness, courage and absolute commitment to the African Revolution. &#8220;We extend gratitude to the parents and family of our Deputy President who have raised to be the man he is.&#8221; The birth of babies on Christmas Day and New Year&#8217;s day is always accorded special significance. Ndlozi said that Shivambu and EFF leader Julius Malema &#8220;have already giving our people the greatest gift since 1994; a movement in pursuit of Economic Freedom rooted in the uncompromising call for the return of the land!&#8221; By noon on the first day of 2017, more than 100 babies were already born in Gauteng, the provincial health department said. Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu congratulated all the mothers and urged parents to take care of their babies. He thanked all healthcare professionals for ensuring that the delivery of quality healthcare in the province was maintained during the festive season, especially on public holidays. I really appreciate the efforts of all healthcare workers during this festive season, while others are home resting, they are hard at work and ensuring that lives are saved. Thirty-two New Year s Day babies were born in the North West by Sunday afternoon, the provincial health department said. We are currently standing at a total of 32 new born babies in the North West province, said spokesperson Tebogo Lekgethwane. The first baby was born at the Boitekong Community Health in Rustenburg. All children and their mothers were in good health. Last year 47 New Year s babies were born in the province. Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA) Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu congratulated all the mothers and urged parents to take care of their babies. He thanked all healthcare professionals for ensuring that the delivery of quality healthcare in the province was maintained during the festive season, especially on public holidays. I really appreciate the efforts of all healthcare workers during this festive season, while others are home resting, they are hard at work and ensuring that lives are saved. Thirty-two New Year s Day babies were born in the North West by Sunday afternoon, the provincial health department said. We are currently standing at a total of 32 new born babies in the North West province, said spokesperson Tebogo Lekgethwane. The first baby was born at the Boitekong Community Health in Rustenburg. All children and their mothers were in good health. Last year 47 New Year s babies were born in the province. Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA)