A North West Business Forum (NWBF) meeting called to help rebuild the African National Congress (ANC) in the province was disrupted in Rustenburg on Saturday. About 200 ANC members from Sunrise Park in Rustenburg, dressed in the party s yellow T-shirts, hurled chairs onto the stage at the start of the meeting at the Matsukubyane Secondary School in Kanana near Rustenburg. The group entered the hall singing and waving sticks, and continued to do so despite NWBF deputy secretary Themba Gwabeni calling for order. Viva Jacob Zuma, viva, Gwabeni chanted as the group moved towards the stage. He dashed for the door and jumped the school fence at the back of the hall to escape the angry crowd. Chairs were hurled onto the stage and some people among the group beat a pastor with a stick. The sound system was smashed to the ground. The leader of the group Vusi Wolf said the meeting was convened without the blessing of the ANC leadership. The people calling this meeting are not ANC members, they are from the Forum 4 Service Delivery [F4SD] and now they claim to be of ANC, he said. When we heard about this meeting we checked with the ANC local leadership. They did not know about this meeting, the provincial and national leadership also did not know about this meeting. As members of the ANC we disrupted the meeting because it was convened outside the constitution of the ANC. Wolf said they would disrupt any meeting which was anti-ANC. NWBF secretary Sello Mogodiri said they were not expecting the meeting to be disrupted. What happened here is anarchy. Drunk youngster disrupted the meeting, why give the youth intoxicating liquor instead of giving them jobs, he said. In the invitation to the meeting the NWBF said the economic and political state of the North West province was at stake. Struggle veterans, members, ANC leaders, traditional, religious, and business leaders were invited to discuss the political situation in North West. Police separated the two ANC warring groups along the R510 linking Rustenburg and Northam. The Sunrise group wanted the other group to give them their ANC T-shirts, claiming they were not legitimate ANC members. After a lengthy discussion with the police the groups left. The Sunrise group accused the NWBF of using the consultative meeting to launch a music CD attacking North West premier Supra Mahumapelo. The song called for Mahumapelo to resign before February 14. African News Agency (ANA)