Calls for the African National Congress (ANC) succession debate to be officially opened are gaining momentum, with teams being reportedly assembled to support various candidates vying to take over the party reins from President Jacob Zuma. City Press reported at the weekend that behind-the-scenes opponents of frontrunner Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa are apparently trying to divert support from his camp by saying that he is beholden to Jewish business interests . Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. Photo: Chester Makana Those opposed to the party s national chair, Baleka Mbete, who has recently publicly declared her availability to stand for president, are said to be spreading rumours about her health by claiming that she is very ill, according to the report. Baleka Mbete. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Opponents of outgoing African Union Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma are apparently citing her renewed close ties to her ex-husband as a source of potential conflict, should she be elected as ANC president later this year in December at the party s 54th national elective conference. President Jacob Zuma, Cyril Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma during the national Women&#8217;s Day celebrations at the Union Buildings on August 09, 2016 in Pretoria, South Africa. (Photo by Gallo Images / Lefty Shivambu The paper reported that Dlamini-Zuma has been accused of hijacking the female president campaign, initially tabled with Mbete in mind. The strategy is similar to a tactic used against former US presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, who was accused by his rival, Donald Trump, of using the woman card to garner votes under the banner of being the first female president to be nominated by one of America s biggest parties. ALSO READ: How Mbete was sidelined in favour of Dlamini-Zuma for ANC presidency A source told City Press that Mbete was the the candidate people had in mind when the idea of a woman president was proposed . Other behind-the-scenes campaigning for the ANC s top job includes camps for former president Kgalema Motlanthe and Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe. ANC leaders reportedly said even Zuma could be persuaded to open the succession debate by allowing members to openly discuss aspirant successors. The president last week indirectly endorsed Dlamini-Zuma to succeed him when his term ends as ANC president in December. The paper quoted an ally of Zuma, saying that he had long been concerned that the debate was getting out of control . Mbete told the paper that, according to the ANC s culture, the succession debate was usually declared open soon after the party s policy conference due to take place later this year in June. Other ANC members said the succession debate had in effect been opened late last year, when provincial leaders were given the green light to discuss succession among themselves. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.