KwaZulu-Natal acting police commissioner Maj-Gen Bheki Langa has commended the good work by police in the province who recovered illegal firearms and drugs and arrested alleged drug dealers over the past few days. I really appreciated the work done by our officers. A number of operations were conducted recently where drugs and firearms were recovered in the province. I want to warn drug dealers to stop dealing or using drugs, otherwise they will face the long arm of the law. I also appeal to the public to continue providing us with information about people dealing in drugs in their areas, he said on Saturday. Operations started on Thursday in various parts of the province, particularly in the Umzinto, Umgababa, Point, Port Shepstone, and Sundumbili areas, spokesperson Lt-Col Thulani Zwane said. Umlazi K9 unit officers arrested two suspects on Thursday at Umzinto taxi rank after they were found in possession of 76 capsules of heroin. On the same day, the members proceeded to another place at Umzinto where they saw a group smoking drugs. A search was conducted and one suspect was arrested after he was found with 45 capsules of heroin. At Umgababa area near Umkomaas, the members went into a house where drugs were manufactured. [The] house was searched and two suspects were arrested. They were found busy packing capsules in packets ready to be sold; 109 capsules of heroin and 18 tablets of Mandrax were found on the scene. The arrested suspects were charged with possession of drugs. On Saturday morning, during a joint operation by the Port Shepstone K9 unit, the Hawks organised crime unit, the 10111 response unit, and a security company, a suspicious vehicle was stopped on the R102 at Port Shepstone. It was searched and found to be filled with parcels of dagga. Four suspects, including three women, were arrested. They were from the Eastern Cape. On Friday afternoon, a man was also arrested at Point in Durban when he was found in possession of drugs. It was believed that the man was manufacturing ecstasy in his flat. Ecstasy tablets, rock cocaine, ecstasy powder, and manufacturing tools and die were found. The Umhlali K9 unit and KwaDukuza crime intelligence conducted an operations in the Sundumbili area on Saturday morning, where they arrested a man found in possession of an unlicensed .303 rifle and ammunition. The firearm would be sent for ballistic tests to establish whether it had been used in crime, including faction fights and taxi-related cases in that area, Zwane said. African News Agency (ANA)