Women of Moruleng outside Rustenburg on Thursday, called on North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo to stop interfering with their traditional leadership. The women, led by Royal Aunts, marched to the provincial government seat at Garona Building in Mmabatho, to reject what they termed an attempt to impose Kgafela Kgafela II as the traditional leader in Moruleng and also appointing an administrator to manage the administration. We the Royal Aunts and bonafide women of Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela reject with the contempt it deserve, any attempt by the premier and the provincial government to seek to impose Kgafela Kgafela on the traditional community of Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela in Moruleng, South Africa as well as appointing an administrator for them, said Ntshadi Ntsheole. The Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela is straddle between Botswana and South Africa, the other part is based in Mochudi, Botswana while the other part is in Moruleng in South Africa. The traditional community is led by Kgosi Nyalala Pilane in South Africa while Kgafela Kgafela II, based in Botswana, is the paramount chief of the tribe. ALSO READ: Maimane defies Zuma and goes to Israel The dispute surrounding the chieftaincy of the more than 300,000 Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela in Moruleng, surfaced when paramount chief Kgafela Kgafela II relocated from Botswana to South Africa in May 2012, following charges of assault and legal battles with the government of Botswana. In September last year, Kgosi Nyalala Pilane, the royal family and the traditional council of Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela in Moruleng went to the North West High Court to stop Kgafela II from installing David Mpule Pheto as acting kgosi in Moruleng. He had planned to install Pheto on September 24, but the court blocked him. The women of Moruleng said they were aware that the premier and provincial government continue to support Kgafela II, despite the fact that former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela finding that he was illegal in South Africa. It is an opened secret that Kgafela Kgafela has fraudulently obtained a South African birth certificate and hopes to aquire permanent residence in South Africa In a petition, the women called on Mahumapelo to desist from any further engagement with Kgafela II in respect of the chieftaincy and administration of Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela in Moruleng. The women wanted Mahumapelo to respond to their memorandum within seven days or else they would head to the Union Building in Pretoria. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.