Married At First Sight South Africa, which premieres on Lifetime (DStv 131) on Friday at 8.50pm, will see six young South Africans tie the knot to a partner they meet for the very first time at the altar. The unique reality show sees a number of specialists team up to help scientifically match the couples in the hope that they will find true love. The three couples in Married At First Sight South Africa will rely on a panel of experts to match them with their partner and they then have six weeks, with the specialists nurturing their new relationships, to decide whether they re going to stay together. So who have they put their trust in? 1) Paula Quinsee relationship expert Quinsee is a certified imago educator and professional facilitator and NLP life coach. As a relationship expert, she teaches individuals and organisations the importance of healthy relationships using emotional intelligence skills. 2) Neo Tshireletso Pule counselling psychologist Pule earned the MSc counselling psychology degree at the University of the Free State and she is currently acquiring a doctoral degree in consulting psychology at the University of South Africa. She has an established private practice in Pretoria and her area of expertise includes relationship and family dynamics; adjustment and personal development. 3) Professor Shingai Mutambirwa sex health specialist He holds M Med (Urology) Medunsa and FCS (Urol) degrees. Shingai has a busy private practice at Clinix Tshepo Themba Hospital where a number of research projects are conducted under his other cap as head of the department of Urology at Dr George Mukhari Academic hospital and Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University in Pretoria. 4) Winnie Kunene financial expert Kunene studied business management at Wits and attained a post graduate qualification from GIMT, senior executive programme at Harvard Business School in Boston, US and University of the North School of Micro Finance. She is referred to by many as the money psychologist. 5) Radio and television presenter Sam Cowen Cohen is a well-known author and radio host and has spent many years listening to audiences life stories and sharing her advice. She joins the panel as a life expert For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.