The University of Johannesburg (UJ) on Thursday congratulated all 2016 matriculants who had successfully completed their final school examinations, saying it was looking forward to welcoming some who would enrol with the institution this year. The UJ 2017 intake comprises about 10,500 first-year students, making UJ home to approximately 50,000 students this year. In a statement, UJ registrar Professor Kinta Burger said matric results still represented an important gateway to the future. For UJ, every new student is a welcome addition to our ever-growing community of South Africans who are uplifted, inspired and empowered by a programme of academic study and a concrete qualification, Burger said. We look forward to our 2017 intake as the latest of a group of inquiring young minds, eager to learn and to empower themselves, their communities and their nation with meaningful and transformative knowledge, insight and capabilities. Burger reminded all who had applied and those who were interested in studying at UJ that the application, admission and registration processes were handled online, including late application enquiries. All applicants who have been accepted for a programme of study at UJ would receive official confirmation of their final admission status via email by Sunday, 8 January 2017. UJ does not, under any circumstances, accept on-campus late application enquiries (walk-ins). Burger said all new UJ students accepted for a programme of study and who had registered and paid the first minimum payment online, may collect their student cards which would provide access to campus, libraries and other facilities. The university remains committed to its vital mission to empower our people, their families, and the nation via the development and transfer of knowledge, insights and capabilities, Burger added. Enquiries related to late applications for programmes which may have additional capacity for enrollment, could be submitted online via the Late Enquiry Link (MobiSite) on the UJ website from January 9.