The North West Business Forum (NWBF) will lay criminal charges after its consultative meeting was violently disrupted in Kanana near Rustenburg on Saturday, the organisation said. The NWBF will open a case of assault with the police as these were clearly acts of violence ordered by the ANC leadership and meted out on ordinary members, veterans, and ex-combatants whose crime is to be concerned about the declining state of the ANC in the North West, NWBF secretary Sello Mogodiri said on Sunday. Reverend Molefe was badly injured in the head and was subsequently hospitalised. Another elderly female veteran sustained injuries after she was attacked by the vigilantes while fleeing the venue. One of the marshals was also very badly injured after he was attacked by the same group. Several other members of the ANC from various regions were injured during the attack. He said the consultative meeting had sought to reflect on the declining ANC support in the province after the party s 15 percent drop in support during the August 3, 2016, municipal elections. Of concern was the alleged high levels of corruption in government, the manipulation of candidate lists by the political leadership, the unilateral decision-making by the ANC chairman and premier [Supra Mahumapelo], his dictatorial tendencies and lack of consultation with alliance partners, the purging of qualified senior government officials who are then replaced by less experienced acting officials who are generally complicit in the committing of corrupt activities, disregard for procurement regulations, and the unofficial centralisation of the awarding of government tenders in the premier s office and their channelling to his cronies, Mogodiri said. The meeting had hoped to find ways of ensuring that all issues attributed to the ANC s greatest electoral loss of support were highlighted and addressed with a view to improve the party s standing in the province. Regrettably, as the meeting got underway to deal with this critical agenda, a group of seemingly intoxicated or drugged vigilantes purporting to represent the premier and his colleagues unexpectedly stormed the venue carrying dangerous weapons such as pangas, knob-kerries, golf clubs, sjamboks, and guns. They disrupted the meeting by attacking attendees who included elderly veterans and women, he said. Police were called to separate the two groups along the R510 road linking Rustenburg and Northam. African News Agency (ANA)