The connections of Let It Rain scored a massive coup last time when their four-year-old son of Dynasty was backed from an opening call of 14-1 to go off at 9-2. Ridden by Marco van Rensburg the Weiho Marwing-trained runner sat towards the rear of the field and then exploded through with 200m to run and won going away, easily beating Bush Pilot by three lengths. He received a penalty of 3.5kg for that facile victory over 2000m at Turffontein and it will be interesting to see how that will affect him when he lines up for Race 7 over the same distance at the Vaal today. A closer look at his form might make one wonder how he was allowed to open at 14-1 in the first place. He has raced 15 times for three wins and five places and his only poor run in his last five was an unplaced performance behind Baracah three runs back. This is a stronger field than last time but Van Rensburg, who has ridden Let It Rain twice for two wins, is aboard Cockade this time for the Lucky Houdalakis yard, while Weichong Marwing takes the ride for his brother. They will jump from barrier No 9. This is quite an open race and there are no shortages of dangers. Scotland is currently in good form and in his last six runs has a record of three wins, two seconds and a third. Two runs back he finished a one-length second behind Revelation who he meets again. He then went on to finish a 0.30-length second behind Kingmambo s Legacy over 2000m at Turffontein. He was penalised 1.5kg for that run and as a result now meets Revelation on the identical weight differential so on paper, Scotland should not reverse the placings. However, he has been the fastest finishing runner in both of his last two stars and the extra 200m this time could count in his favour and allow him to get his nose in front. Craig Zackey rides Scotland for the Paul Peter yard while Revelation has Lyle Hewitson up. The merit rating of Fortune Fella continues to fall and he is now reaching the stage where he is becoming competitive again. In July he was racing off a rating of 90 but in this event it has dropped to 76. Trainer Devin Little has fitted him with surgical shoes in his last three starts and the addition of blinkers also seems to have helped. He could find 2000m a touch short but Piere Strydom takes the ride and that could work in favour of the five-year-old gelding.