Value creation is an important, but somewhat nebulous, concept in business. It refers to activities that have a positive financial impact in business. Value takes the form of a receipt of cash and sometimes it takes the form of monetary saving (price negotiation). Yet, value can take a less obvious form, such as when a process is sped up, or a costly situation is expected but avoided. Procurement is a business function with incredible capability for creating value. Procurement can create value in many ways. Unfortunately, many senior executives and, admittedly, even some procurement specialists do not fully understand that procurement can create value.How procurement can create value for your business? It is truly said that there are situations where collaborating with other departments is necessary to create value. In this context, procurement can act as a strategic contributor to your business.Achieving cost savings is the classic way for procurement value creation in business. Using negotiation, strategic sourcing, and other methods, you can reduce the prices your business pays for goods and services. Beyond purchase price reduction, procurement specialist can achieve lowest total cost of ownership by selecting suppliers, products and services that offer efficiencies, tangential costs like those related to energy use, warehousing, maintenance, and more.In today s hyper-fast business world, speed is an important differentiator. Think about your personal life. If you were due for a new smart phone, would you prefer one that you can walk out of the store with or a similar one that you would have to order and receive several weeks later? Speed can make your business s products or services more attractive to the consumer, which will eventually lead to greater sales. Procurement can contribute to company s speed and, thus, create value.Imagine a physical timeline of all of the activities that go into serving the customer. Do procurement-related activities add to that overall timeline? If that timeline is condensed, it means better service to the customer. Better service to the customer means value. Procurement activities that contribute to the time it takes to launch a new product or service if shortened it creates value as a product/service can get to the market before competitor hence greater sales and market share advantage to your business.Like speed, quality is a differentiator in the eyes of customers. Depending on the situation, the quality of a product or service may be more important to a customer than cost. The quality of a product or service is heavily dependent upon its inputs. Inputs refer to purchased products and services that affect the product received by customer. Improved quality of the inputs can improve quality of goods/services provided to your customers. This translates to greater revenue to your business.Procurement processes take time. And, as the saying goes, time is money. My notion rather would say time is cost. Every minute that someone in your company spends on any activity represents cost to your business. Reducing that time reduces cost and creates value. Unless they have recently been optimized, procurement processes are notoriously inefficient. Therefore, you need to look at the processes within your control and identify ways to make those processes take less time.By Julius Bulili | follow through my next consultative message.| Email: lucbulili@yahoo.com or jullybulili@gmail.com