The City of Johannesburg has warned residents that services at some of its licensing centres would be affected following the arrest of several officials for fraud and corruption in a wide-ranging anti-graft clampdown. This comes after Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba announced on Tuesday that four licensing department officials had been arrested for fraud and corruption following an investigation into syndicate fraud totalling more than R14 million. So far, four officials from the Sandton licensing department and the Martindale bulk licensing department in Midrand have been arrested, while three others are expected to be apprehended soon. Mashaba said at least 106 allegedly corrupt licensing centre officials would be arrested across the city s licensing centres in the coming days. Mayoral Committee member for Public Safety, Michael Sun, said the licensing centre services would be affected by these arrests and urged the public to be patient. I request Joburg residents to please be patient during this time. I am certain that our residents will understand that this decisive action against corrupt officials is a positive step towards a cleaner and corrupt-free City of Johannesburg that is committed to serving the residents of our city, Sun said in a statement. READ MORE: Mashaba to arrest 106 corrupt Joburg licensing officials We will do our best to ensure that we minimise the effect on service delivery over this period and we will work tirelessly to ensure a more efficient licensing service going forward. The city s internal investigations unit had identified 972 allegedly fraudulent transactions with a total value of R14.7 million that occurred between January 2008 and February 2016. Gauteng Transport MEC welcomes arrests of licensing officials in Joburg Meanwhile, Gauteng MEC for Roads and Transport, Ismail Vadi, welcomed the arrests of the officials by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks). In a statement, Vadi also express his support for the on-going investigations into the alleged corrupt activities of a further 106 officials at various other driver testing centres. The arrests and investigations into alleged fraud and corrupt activities at driver testing centres in Johannesburg is fully supported by the provincial government and we will work closely with the city s leadership in breaking criminal syndicates linked to these centres, Vadi said. Any action aimed at combating corruption is in the public interest and will be supported by the provincial department of roads and transport. Vadi said that corrupt practices initiated through criminal syndicates, selected driving schools and the bribing of examiners at testing stations, was a matter of serious concern He said that driver testing centres have been identified as critical areas for intervention in several surveys on public perceptions of corruption at government service delivery sites. Indications from the City of Joburg were that syndicates allegedly colluded with certain licensing officials to perform illegal transactions on the licensing computer system. Vadi said that he had spoken to the MMC for Public Safety, Michael Sun, commending him for the actions taken and pledging his support for the on-going investigations. African news Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.