The judgement of Kempton Park model agency boss Dawie de Villiers, who faces various charges including rape, sexual assault, sexual grooming, possession of child pornography, and theft was postponed in the Johannesburg High Court on Wednesday. Judge Cassim Moosa read through a total of 27 testimonies from witnesses who testified against the founder of Modelling South Africa (PTY), who is accused of rape, sexual assault, indecent assault, sexual grooming, possession and accessing of child pornography, fraud, theft and unlawfully exposing his two children to pornography. The charges date back to 2010. ALSO READ: Police visibility continues in Alex despite end of festive season Moosa read onto the record the testimonies of a 22-year-old woman who was allegedly raped by De Villiers when she was 15, a woman who was touched and sent inappropriate messages, and the testimony of a woman who was allegedly defrauded of R50,000. He read through the other 23 testimonies from the States witnesses and said he would continue with the defence s testimony on Thursday. The case was adjourned to Thursday. In September, the court heard closing arguments in the case against De Villiers, who also faces a charge of intimidation arising from an email which he sent and said he would kill his accuser. During the trial, Advocate Jacques Pienaar for De Villiers said the words expressed in the email conversation between De Villiers and Yolande Smit were merely an angry response to the allegations of sexual assault made by an aspiring model. The accused and Smit had been in a six-year relationship. In the email, De Villiers said that he would kill one of the girls who had accused him of sexual assault. Smit said that De Villiers only said he would kill his accuser because he was angry. Smit said she had contacted the complainant who told her that the accused had tried to force himself on her. During the trial, De Villiers denied all the allegations and maintained that his accusers were conspiring against him. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.