Last month, Duanne Olivier shook hands with the Sri Lankans and walked off after a draw was called between the SA Invitational XI and the visitors in Potchefstroom. Before he could reach the dressing room, Vinnie Barnes, Cricket South Africa s high performance manager, cornered him. Also read: Russell Domingo: We weren&#8217;t even allowed to pitch to Kyle I told him he d better be mentally prepared because a national call-up wouldn t be far away, he said. What Olivier and Barnes didn t expect was that it would come so quickly. The 24-year-old quick from the Knights on Thursday was confirmed as Kyle Abbott s replacement for next week s third Test in Johannesburg. Olivier, who is currently the leading wicket-taker in this season s domestic four-day competition with 28 scalps, is understandably considered a strike bowler. And in Potchefstroom, he did little to shed that perception. In 20 wholehearted overs, Olivier finished with figures of 4/54 against a Test batting line-up. Yet Barnes believe he s a far closer to be a direct replacement for Abbott than one might think. Duanne s biggest strength is that he s a versatile bowler, said the former Proteas assistant coach. He s learnt from an early age to adapt to different conditions. It helps that he plays his cricket in Bloemfontein, where the pitch isn t always favourable. It means if your team is playing on a flat surface where the batters prosper, there s no better bowler to help maintain control than Olivier. Also read: Kyle Abbott: I didn t quit because of transformation Duanne has everything, said Barnes. He can be penetrative and quick with the new ball, keep things steady in the middle of a match and then get reverse swing with an older ball. On last year s South Africa A tour to Australia, we played on very slow pitches and Duanne was arguably our best bowler. If the Wanderers pitch does warrant South Africa including four seamers, don t bet against Olivier being more than ready to be the steady member of the attack that let s Kagiso Rabada and co snap up the wickets. Interestingly, Duanne s got a very good economy rate for a fast bowler. He really doesn t like giving away runs, said Barnes. But we re so used to him having to perform on unfavourable pitches. I really want to see him perform on a green top that gives him assistance. That could be fun. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.