The North West province is ready to start the 2017 academic year with teaching and learning immediately on the first day, Education and Sport Development MEC Sello Lehari said on Tuesday. On behalf of the province I am confident to announce that the province is ready for the reopening of schools. I want to assure the parents that their children will be in safe hands, teaching and learning will start immediately on the first day. He said textbooks and stationery have already been delivered to schools and time tables have been set. I therefore encourage all our learners, educators and departmental officials to work hard as from the beginning of the year in order for us to obtain good results at the end of the year. He said schools in the North West opened their gates on Monday, to welcome the teachers across the province and on the first day, teachers dealt with class allocations, time tables, distribution of stationery, resource allocation and others. READ MORE: Parents queue at Gauteng education offices for school places Learning, teaching materials were distributed to schools in November last year. The readiness programme started last year with a massive advocacy drive on learner registration campaign. Learner registration advocacy started in May and concluded in September 2016. So far the department has registered almost 51 658 Grade R learners who are going to start their schooling this year. He said department has prioritised areas which were ravaged by overcrowding and storm damaged schools. Areas of Ditsobotla, Koster, Mamusa, Rustenburg, Ikageng, and many others have been identified as hotspot areas for overcrowding and the department has purchased mobile classrooms to relief them from overcrowding. Other areas will be receiving completed structures. Lehari together and Basic Education Deputy Minister Enver Surty, would visit Ramokoka Primary School at Ramokokastad Village on Wednesday. North West Provincial Legislature s Portfolio Committee on Education, Sports, Arts, Culture and Traditional Affairs would conduct oversight visits to various schools across all the four districts of the province on Wednesday. The purpose of the visits is to assess the schools readiness for 2017 and challenges that they are facing. Members of the Provincial Legislature will be accompanied by Members of the National Parliament, Members from the Executive Committee in the North West province as well as various departmental officials including circuit and area managers of the schools who will be accounting on challenges found at the schools, committee chair Boitumelo Moiloa, said in a statement. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.