Following Somizi Mhlongo&#8217;s outrage over a sermon at Grace Bible Church on Sunday, a debate has been raging on social media. There are those who support Somizi for &#8220;standing up&#8221; for the LGBTI community, and others who say he should be upset with God, not the pastor, as he was preaching what was written in the Bible. Just as we thought the dust had settled, musician Bulelwa &#8216;Zahara&#8217; Mtukutana took to Instagram to share her thoughts on the matter. On Wednesday, Zahara told fans to go and write their own Bible if they were uncomfortable with what was written in the one they had. &#8220;Guys you go to church and read the same Bible you brought yourself. So don&#8217;t be choosy when in comes to your sins. Go write your own Bible,&#8221; she said. It is hard to think of this as anything but a jab aimed at Somizi, as he was the one who walked out of church because he was &#8220;offended&#8221; by a sermon. Read more: Somizi storms out of Grace Bible Church over homosexuality remarks Responding to the backlash the church received from the public, Grace Bible Church said it welcomed gay people and never discriminated against people based on their sexuality. Speaking on behalf of the church, Pastor Ezekiel Mathole said guest preacher Bishop Dag Heward-Mills whole sermon was very provocative and that it was not only for gay people. He said the church respected gay people s views and were more than welcome to be a part of their Sunday services. The entire sermon was very provocative, it provoked and challenged a lot of people and offended many people. It offended people who are liars, it offended people who are promiscuous, it offended people who are thieves, and then it dealt with issues around people with different sexual orientations; whether they are male and have different partners or they are homosexual. So across the board, it did not only offend the LGBT community, it offended a lot of people. It was a very very provocative sermon, he said. Read more: The sermon was not only for gay people, says Grace Bible Church 