South African centurion Dean Elgar said on Monday that his career-best 129 on the first day of the second Test against Sri Lanka at Newlands was a relief from all the unconverted starts that have frustrated the left-handed batsman in recent times. Elgar s six-hour innings ensured that South Africa (297 for six) safely negotiated a tricky opening day after being sent in to bat in overcast conditions on a pitch that was well-grassed and offered plenty of movement, the opener batting for all but the last 26 minutes of the action. Also read: No need to rush Proteas vice-captaincy, says Craig Matthews In his last 15 Test innings, Elgar has scored between 15 and 52 on nine occasions, with just the one century the 127 against Australia in Perth at the beginning of November that was his highest Test score before Monday. Every hundred is always very special for me, especially after you lose the toss and are sent in to bat. And my last few series have been very frustrating, I d get a century early on and then just not kick on. I d get those frustrating 20s, 30s and 40s but not kick on, and that s what pisses you off! Elgar said. Given the conditions, it was a day for circumspection, getting oneself in, occupying the crease and going for the big score, and Elgar did that to perfection, making himself the early star of the New Year s Test and potentially another series win for South Africa. Today was more characteristic of the way I want to play. I ve had chats with Mark Boucher [Titans coach] and Neil McKenzie, who both had very similar input, gone back to the drawing board and simplified my game, although different game plans for different bowlers are also part of that. In the past I used to go too hard at the ball and sometimes I was almost watching the game instead of actually playing the game, I had to make that mental switch, Elgar said. Elgar finally wrestled the initiative away from Sri Lanka in the final session of the day, as he and Quinton de Kock added 103 for the sixth wicket at a run-a-minute. De Kock will resume on the second morning on 68 not out and Elgar reckons there will be more punishment coming from the scintillating wicketkeeper-batsman. Quinnie is a freak of world cricket and he can put the bowlers under lots of pressure tomorrow, which will be great for us. He s a world-beater, the sort of guy you want at seven because if he gets going again, then he will really kill the opposition, Elgar said. The 29-year-old predicted that there is still going to be plenty on offer for the South African pace bowlers when they get the chance to bowl. Also read: Brilliant Dean Elgar headlines Proteas&#8217; impressive recovery It s definitely a new-ball pitch and even the second new ball this evening had a lot of seam movement. I m really glad Vernon Philander and Kyle Abbott are playing on my side because they ve been bowling really well together lately. Over the five days there s definitely still going to be something in the pitch for the new ball, and it might even turn more, which is exciting for us batting first. It s the most grass I ve seen on a Test pitch here, before it s been like they poured cement on it, but it s a good cricket wicket like in Port Elizabeth. If you apply yourself with bat or ball you will have success, and for the longevity of Test cricket, we need more of these pitches, Elgar said. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.