It is 18 years since jockey Craig Magua died after a tragic accident at Germiston Racecourse in 1999 when the horse he was riding stumbled and fell heavily only 50m from the finish line. Race 7 at Turffontein today has been named in memory of the jockey who was 36 years old at the time. This MR 72 Handicap over 1800m on the Inside track looks a duel between three runners Bush Pilot, Detonation and Arlington. There was a lot to like about the way Arlington won last time and it was far easier than the one-length official distance may indicate. The Robbie Sage-trained runner came to form in November when running a 0.90-length second behind Woodland Saga over 1450m on the Inside track and was strongly fancied to follow up next time. However, he was unlucky to bump a first-timer from the Sean Tarry stable who looks to have a great future in Al Sahem. Arlington was well beaten into fourth place by 5.25 lengths but the blinkers, which seemed to have led to the improvement in his previous start, had been removed. Piere Strydom, who had ridden the son of Pathfork previously, and the blinkers were both back on Arlington and this time they raced to that easy victory over Jackman on the Standside track. Strydom did feel at the time his mount would be better on the more galloping track, but he is now going 200m further and hopefully that will compensate for the change of course. Geoff Woodruff has four runners and two of them are Bush Pilot and Detonation. He also has Starrett City, who had a promising debut for the stable last time, and Lord Windsor. Bush Pilot has run four times and has yet to be out of the places. His only win was over 1600m at this course. However, Chase Maujean will have to overcome No 13 draw and that could be a concern. That is why preference is for Detonation who has run three times for two wins and a second place at this course. He has won over 2000m and 2600m and might prefer a little further. He seems to have a devastating finish but will need a good pace. Raymond Danielson takes the ride. Starrett City finished a 1.25-length fourth behind Aza Arrow last time but is up in class in this race. Devin Habib takes the ride. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;