Severe thunderstorms are expected to hit the western parts KwaZulu-Natal on Thursday afternoon. The warning was issued by the province s MEC for cooperative governance and traditional affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube after he received reports from the South African Weather Service. The province s disaster management teams were placed on standby. During December, the province experienced seven fatalities due to drownings and incidents caused by heavy rains. There were 42 injuries reported in Nquthu and Umhlabuyalingana local municipalities. Thirty-nine of these were caused by lightning while the other three were due to a wall collapse. We would like to urge our communities to take this weather warning seriously, as we have seen how deadly lightning can. The reports we have received indicate that the areas to be affected in the west and southwest of the province will include the areas of Harry Gwala, uThukela and Amajuba District. This means that residents of these areas need to be cautious and take all necessary steps to protect themselves and their families, she said. We also urge parents and teachers to ensure that learners are inside class whenever there is lightning and that no sporting activity takes place when there is lightning. We also need our learners to be taught about the dangers of lightning and heavy rains so that they do not place themselves at risk unnecessarily. Dube-Ncube said that the deployment of the disaster management teams to the affected areas would ensure that they can respond to all reported incidents timeously. Members of communities are encouraged to do the following whenever there are thunderstorms: If outside, seek refuge in a car or grounded building when lightning or thunder begins. If inside, avoid taking baths, or showers, and washing dishes. Avoid using landline phones, televisions, and other appliances that conduct electricity. Stay inside for 30 minutes after you last see lightning or hear thunder If caught outside away from a building car, stay clear of water bodies and tall objects like trees. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.