As police proclaimed on Monday that their most senior officer in KwaZulu-Natal was still suspended, provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Mmamonnye Betty Ngobeni insisted she was back at work. The bizarre situation arose on Tuesday after Durban High Court Judge Nkosinathi Chilli granted an execution order allowing Ngobeni to return to work. According to the order, Ngobeni could return to work until the police had lodged a petition with the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). Speaking to the African News Agency (ANA) by phone, Ngobeni said: I was at the court this morning. As far as I am concerned I am back at work. Ngobeni, who said she was speaking from her office, referred all other queries to her legal representatives. A statement issued by national police spokeswoman, Brigadier Sally de Beer, said: The South African Police Service is appealing the whole of the judgement and order. Therefore Lieutenant General Ngobeni s suspension will continue pending the finalisation of the appeal process. Her attorney will be requested to inform his client not to return to work. However, the statement did not confirm whether any appeal had in fact actually been lodged with the SCA. According to the head office statement, Major General Bhekinkosi Langa would remain in position as acting provincial commissioner. Last month Judge Chilli dismissed an application to appeal his earlier judgement overturning Acting National Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phalane s decision to suspend Ngobeni. He ruled that Phalane needed the support of the police minister and the provincial executive council to suspend Ngobeni. He also dismissed an application appealing his earlier judgement that set aside Phalane s right to set up a board of inquiry to determine whether Ngobeni was fit to hold office. Ngobeni was suspended in May over allegations that uMhlanga businessman Thoshan Panday paid for a lavish surprise birthday party for her husband, Brigadier Lucas Ngobeni. She also faces allegations that she ordered the head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) in KwaZulu-Natal to stop investigating Panday in connection with inflated prices for police accommodation during the 2010 soccer world cup. Ngobeni has claimed that she paid back Panday and denies interfering with the investigation against the businessman, which was led by KwaZulu-Natal Hawks boss Major-General Johan Booysen.