Following stern criticism from particularly the ANC Women&#8217;s League, the Gauteng Liquor Board (GLB) has backtracked on its special dispensation liquor licences , or a weekend pass, for the January 6-8 weekend of the annual birthday celebration of the ruling African National Congress (ANC). In a statement, the GLB said it had been inundated with applications for extensions of liquor trading times for this upcoming weekend. The GLB, which is part of the Gauteng Department of Economic Development, said it had initially decided to apply its discretion upon consideration in favour of relaxing liquor trading times to promote local tourism and the hospitality industry. But public outrage was immense and stakeholders who voiced displeasure included the ANC Women s League, which warned that it would not allow the party s January 8 historic event to be turned into a drinking spree. Having considered feedback from the public and other key stakeholders, and after consultation with Gauteng MEC for Economic Development Lebogang Maile, the GLB announced that liquor trading times would no longer be extended for this coming weekend. GLB chairman Fhedzisani Pandelani said all liquor traders in Gauteng would therefore be expected to operate according to their normal trading times and law enforcement agencies would be expected to enforce the law accordingly. We have taken an approach to listen to the feedback of our key stakeholders and have decided that it is in the best interest of everyone that we revoke our decision to issue special dispensation liquor licenses for this coming weekend, Pandelani said. Pandelani added that although the GLB believed that sufficient and cogent reasons existed for the relaxation of the liquor trading timelines to be granted to deserving traders during the designated days, the liquor authority was concerned about sending a wrong message that the board was encouraging alcohol abuse. As the GLB we subscribe to the ethos of responsible alcohol trading and we fully support initiatives aimed at curbing alcohol abuse. We have already implemented stricter regulations for those applying for liquor licenses in Gauteng, Pandelani said. We have a responsibility to ensure that our decisions do not and are not seen as promoting or increasing alcohol abuse, hence we have swiftly moved to reverse such perceptions by reversing our decision. In a statement, Maile commended the GLB for its responsiveness to public reaction and stakeholder inputs. Ours is a people-centred government. Because we are a caring government, we always take inputs of the public at large seriously and respond accordingly. Even if we believed in the correctness of our decisions, we have a moral obligation to listen carefully to the reaction of the public that we serve and align our decisions accordingly, Maile said. Even though the GLB was acting within the ambit of the law, and the decision had the potential for economic spinoffs, as a province we are fully behind the campaign against alcohol abuse hence we are implementing new stricter regulations to curb alcohol abuse. Maile, had on Tuesday welcomed the decision of the GLB to relax the liquor trading times for licensed in-house liquor traders during the forthcoming weekend. Thousands of people are expected to flock to Gauteng to celebrate the 105th anniversary of the founding of the ANC, with the main event scheduled to take place on Sunday at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto. In a statement, Maile had said the event was expected to contribute positively to the economy of the province, especially in the areas of tourism and hospitality. Maile highlighted the potential economic spin-offs for business people, particularly SMMEs in the province, as a result of extended trading hours. Having consulted with the GLB, more particularly my interaction with the chairperson of the Liquor Authority, I am satisfied that there is legislative latitude to, albeit on a temporary basis, relax conditions and the trading regime applicable to all licensed bona fide in-house liquor traders, in good standing with the Liquor Board, during the designated days, Maile said. But Maile emphasised that the weekend-pass would be granted only to deserving liquor traders, to be determined by the GLB on a case-by-case basis. However, the ANC Women s League (ANCWL) warned it would not allow the party s January 8 historic event to be turned into a drinking spree. In a statement issued late on Tuesday the ANCWL said as an integral part of the ANC it will not allow this historic event to be viewed as drinking spree, which requires liquor trading hours to be relaxed by liquor boards . The primary aim of January 8 is for the ANC to reflect on successes and challenges of the previous year and outline the organisation s programme for the current year, said the ANCWL. Members and supporters of the ANC attend January 8 statement events to listen to the president of the ANC delivering the ANC NEC (national executive committee) statement, contrary to whatever is suggested by GLB narrative. The ANCWL said it would not allow anyone or any institution to attempt to drag the good name and credibility of the ANC through the mud. The narrative of portraying members and supporters of the ANC coming to January 8, as people who will require extra hours of purchasing liquor, is a blatant attempt to insult the principles and values the ANC stands for. Thousands of people are expected to flock to Gauteng to celebrate the 105th anniversary of the founding of the ANC, with the main event scheduled to take place on Sunday at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto. In a statement, Maile had said the event was expected to contribute positively to the economy of the province, especially in the areas of tourism and hospitality. Maile highlighted the potential economic spin-offs for business people, particularly SMMEs in the province, as a result of extended trading hours. Having consulted with the GLB, more particularly my interaction with the chairperson of the Liquor Authority, I am satisfied that there is legislative latitude to, albeit on a temporary basis, relax conditions and the trading regime applicable to all licensed bona fide in-house liquor traders, in good standing with the Liquor Board, during the designated days, Maile said. But Maile emphasised that the weekend-pass would be granted only to deserving liquor traders, to be determined by the GLB on a case-by-case basis. However, the ANC Women s League (ANCWL) warned it would not allow the party s January 8 historic event to be turned into a drinking spree. In a statement issued late on Tuesday the ANCWL said as an integral part of the ANC it will not allow this historic event to be viewed as drinking spree, which requires liquor trading hours to be relaxed by liquor boards . The primary aim of January 8 is for the ANC to reflect on successes and challenges of the previous year and outline the organisation s programme for the current year, said the ANCWL. Members and supporters of the ANC attend January 8 statement events to listen to the president of the ANC delivering the ANC NEC (national executive committee) statement, contrary to whatever is suggested by GLB narrative. The ANCWL said it would not allow anyone or any institution to attempt to drag the good name and credibility of the ANC through the mud. The narrative of portraying members and supporters of the ANC coming to January 8, as people who will require extra hours of purchasing liquor, is a blatant attempt to insult the principles and values the ANC stands for. 