Racism-accused estate agent Vicki Momberg escaped accountability for her actions in the Randburg Magistrates&#8217; Court yet again after firing her Legal Aid SA attorney in court. Momberg is accused of eight counts of crimen injuria when she went on a racist rant in February against black police officers in Northriding, Randburg, following an alleged smash-and-grab incident. I lost faith in the legal aid attorney because of confidentiality information that leaked as well as I don t have faith in the attorney, Momberg said in court, saying she still wanted legal representation. Momberg complained Legal Aid SA wanted power of attorney over her bank account, and she wasn t prepared to grant it to the organisation. Whatever you think you want or think you could do, is not possible. Either accept Legal Aid the way it is and what they have to offer to you in respect of their services or you conduct your own defence, the stern Magistrate Pravina Raghunandan said. Momberg maintained she wasn t prepared to hand over power of attorney, and she had taken the matter up with Legal Aid SA head office. ALSO READ: Ford SA to recall Ford Kuga Trying to find a lawyer was basically a full-time job Momberg said, adding she had recordings of her conversations with Clark and had proof of how she had been treated. &#8220;I really do feel I need to be given enough leniency and to be able to get someone to get fair representation.&#8221; Well, it appears to the court that they don t meet up with your standards, so you can t pick and choose which attorney want or the terms and conditions you want to apply to her, said Raghunandan, adding: It appears to this court you have your own terms and conditions. Prosecutor Yusuf Baba accused Momberg of speaking with a forked tongue . Ms Momberg knew very well what she was going to do today. Whether she will get people or not, is irrelevant, said Baba. She knew well in advance she was terminating the mandate of legal aid, and the response she s giving this court speaks with a forked tongue. One minute she s terminated the mandate, then she hasn t done the means test. This is once again a delaying tactic by Ms Momberg. The estate agent was recorded on a mobile device railing against black people during a phone call. The footage was uploaded to YouTube, where it went viral, and she was eventually arrested in June. One k***** is bad enough. This happens all the time, all the time. The k*****s here in Johannesburg are terrible, I m so sick of it, Momburg is recorded in the video as saying. They re opinionated, they re arrogant, and they re just plain and simply useless! Raghunandan gave Momberg a final remand for legal representation to February 2. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.