Animal rescue organisations have their hands full in a bid to assist animals affected by the fires that raged through the southern peninsula in the Western Cape on Wednesday. ALSO READ: NSRI assists in battling against the blazes in the Southern Peninsula TEARS Animal Rescue, which provides veterinary services, animal rescue as well as rehabilitation and rehoming of rescued domestic animals, has worked tirelessly over the past day to care for animals affected by the Ocean View Fire. The non-profit organisation took to its Facebook page to post photos of the fires as well as the animals rescued. On Thursday morning, TEARS vet Dr Jenny Stock and a crew set out in search of animals whose spoor was found in the area of the Kleinplaas Dam. On Wednesday, TEARS reported that the team had come across many tortoises who had not survived the fires. Read some of the Facebook posts by TEARS below: A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook A screenshot from the Tears Animal Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook Firefighters also seem to have been looking out for animals as they battle the blazes. Raise &#8216;n Rescue, an organisation based in Cape Town that re-homes and rescues animals, posted on its Facebook page on January 10 that firefighters rescued a kitten from the veld. The kitten was found not to be injured or burnt, but was neglected. The organisation thanked the team from the Kraaifontein fire department for looking out for the little kitten and offered their help in case the fire department rescues kittens again. Read the full Facebook post by Raise &#8216;n Rescue here: A screenshot of the post on the Raise &#8216;n Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook Many of the organisation&#8217;s supporters shared their happiness at the good news story that came out of the devastating fires in the Western Cape. ALSO READ: Pulling together to fight Somerset West fires A screenshot of the comments on the Raise &#8216;n Rescue Facebook post. Picture: Facebook The organisation further gave thanks to the community for their support and appreciation of the firefighters&#8217; bravery. A screenshot of the post on the Raise &#8216;n Rescue Facebook page. Picture: Facebook For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.