The National Senior Certificate results will be released at different schools at 8am on Thursday, January 5 except in the Western Cape, where the results will be made available on the 6th. The last thing you need to worry about is figuring out how you re going to check your results as soon as they re released. Here are a few ways you can check your results: 1. Online One of the earliest ways to obtain your results is to log on to the department of basic education s website. If you attended a public/government school, then your results will definitely be available on this site. You will need the following to log in: Exam number (let&#8217;s hope you haven&#8217;t misplaced this during the holiday!) Home language Your personal details (name, surname, etc.) 2. The newspaper Your results will be published in various newspapers, including The Citizen, on Thursday. It will be in all of the big newspaper brands. Remember these will not be your full results. It will just state whether you passed and with what symbol B for Bachelors Pass, D for Diploma, etc. 3. Your high school The results will be released at the different schools at 08h00 on Thursday the 5th of January 2017, except in the Western Cape, where the results will be made available on the 6th of January. 4. Your cellphone You can use your cellphone (or someone else s) to receive your results. SABC has a News Break Matric Results Service that allows you to receive your results as soon as they re released. Follow these steps to sign up for the service: SMS your exam number and ID number to 35658 There is aonce-off cost of R3 when you register As soon as the department releases the results, you will get your results via SMS immediately 5. Make a phone call You could also opt for the old-school method by giving the department a call on the day the results are released. Just take note that a lot of matric students will be phoning to find out their results so you might wait for quite a while to get yours. Dial 082 152 for results. Credit: Digital Street SA Caxton News Service