The new R100 million Plettenberg Bay Airport road will impact positively on the regional economy and has the potential of reaping great rewards in the future, Western Cape transport and public works MEC Donald Grant said on Sunday. The 15-month project was motivated by the need to connect the western side of Plettenberg Bay to the N2, also creating easier access from the Plettenberg Bay Airport and the new industrial development area adjacent to the airport on the N2. This would now be the fourth access route into Plettenberg Bay, he said in a statement following the official opening of the road on Saturday. The new road was also expected to be a key driver in increasing tourism in the region, and would increase the potential of property developments along the new road. Tourism remained a huge economic driver in the region, contributing an estimated close to 60 percent to the region s GDP, which was in excess of R2 billion a year, he said. The tourism sector in the region is also the highest employer, employing more than 4000 people with the prospects of more jobs created as the sector continues to grow. The size and continued growth of this sector is testament to what this region has to offer to the thousands of visitors that flock here annually. All of these factors make this R100 million investment by the Western Cape government through its department of transport and public works into Plettenberg Bay a strategic one that has the potential of reaping great rewards in the future. The Eden district continues to be one of the fast growing regional economies of the Western Cape, aided largely by infrastructure investments such as this one, Grant said. The Western Cape government had invested billions of rand in infrastructure in the Bitou municipality and the greater Eden district investment in the form of three new schools, two clinics and a hospital, and major roads construction projects. The impact of this investment across the community and across future generations was enormous. The airport road project had also far exceeded any empowerment targets set as part of the contract. A total of close to R12 million (12 percent of the contract value) was set aside for targetted enterprises, far surpassing the seven percent target initially set. A further R10 million (10 percent of the contract value) was also set aside to benefit emerging contractors which was also notably higher than the 5.6 percent target initially set as per the contract. Empowerment is a key feature of all projects undertaken by the department of transport and public works. I am pleased to see that we continue to meet, and often surpass by huge margins the targets set in this regard. Road infrastructure is an important factor for the productivity, safety, and future development of this country, and the Western Cape in particular. This importance is demonstrated in areas where they are in a poor condition. The adverse impact on economic activity and general safety can be clearly seen. For these reasons, we will continue to do our part to plan, construct, rehabilitate, and maintain the provincial road network as a valued and strategic asset of this government, Grant said. African News Agency (ANA)