The annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland, next week takes place against the backdrop of a rapidly shifting global political landscape, trying economic times, humanitarian crises and the near constant spectre of international terrorism. In the words of Brand SA CEO Dr Kingsley Makhubela, the WEF meeting represents a critical juncture for global leaders from the political, business and civil society spectrum. The meeting comes at a time when globally there is a shift to the right politically, in Europe and the United States, and this shift raises a lot of challenges, he told the African News Agency (ANA) during an interview this week. According to Makhubela, the politics of the right had a tendency to insulate themselves, of not being responsible towards global issues such as security, interlinked economies and the other challenges we see going forward . Makhubela referred to dynamics in France where groupings to the right had coalesced to defeat parties to the centre or left, saying: We need to interface with this kind of dynamic, this is definitely one thing we will have to look at. A year ago in Davos, everyone was talking of developing nations leapfrogging their more established counterparts foregoing the mistakes which had initially slowed the progress of the developed states. In order for that to happen, though, the developed world would have to play its role in creating an enabling environment for the developing South to take its place at the high table of progress. According to Makhubela, recent global political developments, especially the advance of the political right, has raised all manner of uncertainties. This year s WEF meeting has as its theme Responsive and Responsible Leadership , but a week out from Donald Trump s inauguration as the 45th President of the United States, Makhubela is not so sure that the gathering new world order is attuned to this vision. Do we have responsive leadership in this shift to the right? It doesn t appear so based on public pronouncements. With this shift to the right emerging within developed countries, are they going to be able to assist developing countries? He listed the need to assist with medical technologies as a prime example of helping developing nations leapfrog what has been tried, tested and often times already failed. He hit out corruption, citing a study which has shown that if corruption were a country, it would be fifth largest in terms of wealth. We need to manage that, leadership must be responsive, instill levels of confidence, he said. There needs to be a global response to protect the most vulnerable. He added: It is unacceptable that there is so much wealth and yet so much destitution. Turning to home, Makhubela said the South African economy had grown twofold since 1994, but that this had not been wholly inclusive and that there remained a great need to ensure sustainability through opportunities. Makhubela said WEF provided the platform to put on the spot, both political and business leaders from the developed north to say, are you acting in a responsible manner? We must appeal to the conscience of the developed world. As part of building a better, more equitable world, leaders need to pursue conditions conducive to the peaceful resolution of conflicts and the better deployment of resources. He called for investment, especially in Africa, but said such investment needed to be done in a responsible manner and with a focus on empowerment. The opposite, hit-and-run approach, only led to disillusionment and became fertile ground for terror recruitment where even the innocent were pulled in. We must detox that environment, Makhubela said. WEF 2017 is set to focus on four critical leadership challenges reimagining global cooperation, revitalising the global economy, reforming capitalism and preparing for the Fourth Industrial Revolution and Makhubela, for one, said careful consideration needed to be given to how the world embraced these challenges. The Fourth Industrial Revolution has unintended consequences we have to learn to manage, he said. We can t have robots going to war these are ethical issues we need to manage. He said South Africa had played a leading role in raising issues of ethics around conflict and war machinery technologies. Speaking to the divide between the developed world which had advanced so much and the ongoing struggle to industrialise economies in the South, he again raised the need for a leapfrog shift in global patterns. This [leapfrog] was so prominent last year and we have to give effect to that, he said, adding that this required leadership that was responsive to the challenges of the entire global community. Diseases don t have boundaries, he said, countering the politics of isolationism. Closer to home and the Brand SA executive was feeling bullish about South Africa and the story to be told and sold in Switzerland next week. South Africa, despite global and localised economic constraints, remained the gateway to Africa due to the size of its economy, and crucially its infrastructure and strength of its financial institutions. He described those as the leverages to be used when attracting investment and also when looking to expand into other emerging markets on the continent. Other positives included the science and technology sector in the context of the continent, even though we don t invest as we should , and the managing of conflict in the economic space occupied by business, labour and government. There had been a marked decline in the number of strikes in the country and this was due to the platform for dialogue which had been created in the best interests of the country, he said. We think it augurs well for the future of South Africa. Davos, he added, was a key platform for interaction between senior business people and heads of state and government and to this end there was a real synergy between all parties to sell the credibility of the country. In a congested space where other countries were equally marketing themselves, Makhubela said, for once, differences should be forgotten for the sake of a common understanding . Issues could be ventilated at home. Inclusive growth, and the structuring and transformation of the economy rested on this partnership, he said. He listed the oceans, or blue, economy as a key potential growth point, with the ship building and renovation project in Durban as a potential model to be replicated elsewhere around South Africa, while the exploration of gas and oil remained a potential game changer for the country. Makhubela said that infrastructure development commitment both in South Africa and the rest of the continent was key to fostering a strong message for sustainability in the long term. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.