When racism-accused Vicki Momberg appeared in court on a charge of crimen injuria on 6 December, she completed an application for legal aid in court, Advocate Wilna Lambley, Legal Aid South Africa s Gauteng regional operations executive, said on Monday. The practitioner in court, Ms Jenna Clark, provisionally appeared on behalf of Ms Momberg, indicating that the legal aid application will be evaluated and, if successful, an attorney appointed, Lambley said. The approval was supposed to have happened by Monday. In view of the fact that Ms Momberg indicated on her application form that she is unemployed but owns fixed property, she was requested to attend a meeting at the Legal Aid SA Alexandra Justice Centre and to provide information on her income and assets, said Lambley. It was at this meeting Justice Centre executive Nelisa Soji informed Momberg Legal Aid SA would need three months bank statements; the value of the property; the value of the outstanding bond, and so on normal documentation necessary to determine indigence. READ MORE: Forked tongue Momberg slams Legal Aid SA Ms Momberg became defensive and informed the JCE that the bank will not provide her with bank statements. Ms Soji informed her that if she provides Legal Aid SA with a power of attorney, we will be able to approach the bank on her behalf and request the bank statements. Ms Momberg refused, indicating that she does not want legal aid any longer, Lambley noted. Legal Aid SA would like to place on record that a power of attorney was suggested in order to assist Ms Momberg to obtain bank statements, after she indicated that the bank will not provide same to her, Lambley said. Secondly, as far as this case is concerned, Ms Clark appeared for Ms Momberg initially on 6 December 2016 in order to receive her application for legal aid. She has not consulted with her at any stage and could therefore not leak any confidential information. Legal aid has in fact not been approved yet as Ms Momberg has not provided Legal Aid SA with all the information necessary to determine whether she qualifies for legal aid. Ms Momberg terminated our mandate before we could make a decision on whether she qualifies for legal aid. Ms Momberg s application for legal aid is still pending, said Lambley. Legal Aid SA is constitutionally mandated to provide legal representation and advice at no cost to those who cannot afford it. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.