Dar es Salaam. Parents have complained over what they describe as arbitrary increase in cost of educational requirements for their children as schools reopen this month.Most schools reopen today after a long holiday season. a few reopened last week. Some schools closed in November while others closed in early December.Speaking to The Citizen this week, parents in different parts of the city have said that prices of school supplies were higher compared to the previous year, as a result they have failed to take their children to school on time due to lack of money to buy their young ones essential. I have bought a metre of garment for my three children s uniforms each for Sh9,000. Last year, the same garment was selling for Sh7,000. I failed to send my children to school by January 2 because I couldn t get them all necessary items. They had to wait till now. And I still struggle to see what best I can do, said Ms Halima Matutu, a mother of three who resides at Mwananyamala area.Some parents have accused traders of taking advantage of the season to increase the prices of school requirements. The bag which I bought at Sh25,000 last year is now sold at Sh35, 000. I have three children. One is starting Form One. This is too much for me, said Ms Sikudhani Othman, Buguruni resident, adding: A 3 quire counter book which I bought last year at Sh25,000 is now sold at Sh3,000. It is indeed an unbearable situation. But petty-traders at Karume and Manzese markets explain that it s not them who increased the prices, but wholesalers.Ms Festo Silasi, a small trader at Karume market told The Citizen, Prices have increased in wholesale stores. They say, it is because the taxes have gone up. We used to buy a quire 2 counter book carton at Sh64,000, and sold each piece at Sh1,800. But now, we buy the same carton at Sh72,000. We have been forced to increase the price so that we can make some profit. Mr Seleman Mohammed, a petty trader at Manzese Market said, they used to sell shorts for the boys at Sh2,200 each the previous year, but now the same piece was being sold at Sh3,500.The Citizen sought a comment from Ali-Hussein Karim, the Sales Director at Masumin Printways &amp; Stationers Ltd, one of the country s biggest stationary wholesalers.He acknowledged that prices have gone up but declined to give reasons for the change.