Nigel Community Police Forum (CPF) member Johnny Grobler, 46, was shot and killed on Saturday night when he and other patrollers approached five armed men who had allegedly stolen cellphones, handbags and cash, reports the Heidelberg/Nigel Heraut. The incident occurred in the vicinity of Shoprite at approximately 11am. A police spokesperson said at the scene that one of the five suspects who had tried to rob a gambling outlet was killed in the crossfire, while another was arrested. It is reported that a police officer was shot in the foot while a member of the public was shot in the hand and were treated for their gunshot wounds. Three of the suspects are still at large. By 11.10pm, police had cordoned off the area and a helicopter was deployed to help track down the armed men. The search was called-off just before midnight. CPF members were on patrol in the area and when they saw the burglary, they immediately phoned the SAPS to assist them in tracking down the five armed robbers, said head of Nigel CPF, Alwyn van den Heever. The CPF members pursued the robbers on foot as they fled towards the Checkers Mall. Van den Heever said that one of the suspects tried to hide in a tree and it was when they approached him when all hell broke loose. A CPF member asked the man whether he was armed and after he showed us that he wasn t, the member pointed his flashlight at him to confirm. The suspect then suddenly opened fire and shot Mr Grobler in the stomach. Van den Heever was less than a metre away from Grobler when the incident took place. He said that fellow patroller Frans Claassens had risked his life to get the wounded Grobler out of the firing line after he was shot. Grobler passed away shortly after arriving at the hospital. It was like a scene from a movie as shots were fired at will, Van den Heever explained. He added that Grobler was a good servant of the community and always played his part in making Nigel a safer place. He was always willing to help and drove many hours.We will definitely miss him. Our condolences go out to his wife Johanna and the kids. Nigel CPF later said in a statement that this incident would not prevent them from protecting the community and urged all concerned residents to join forces in the fight against crime. For more information on Nigel CPF phone Delia Nel on 082 553 8826. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.