Transformation of the executive team seems to be back on the agenda at South African companies after a lull of a few years, an executive recruitment specialist said on Tuesday. Debbie Goodman-Bhyat, chief executive officer of executive search firm Jack Hammer, said BEE appointments were up by 10% in 2016 from the year before, after static placement statistics between 2012 and 2015. Goodman-Bhyat pointed to both internal and external pressure as possible explanations. She saw two primary reasons for the significant increase in BEE appointments to senior positions. The first was external procurement pressure, she said. More and more companies are recognising that without transforming their executive and senior management ranks, they are being penalised where it counts, and are missing out on opportunities from big corporates and government institutions. The second reason was a substantial increase in the talent pool of black executives, which made transformation at senior levels more compelling in every way. This was due to the increase over time of highly qualified black professionals with the requisite track records and experience, as well as ongoing pressure for companies to transform, said Goodman-Bhyat. Jack Hammer tracks placement demographics annually, and statistics showed that the percentage of BEE appointments at executive level jumped from 39% in 2015, to 48.4 % last year. It will be interesting to see if this trajectory continues, or whether 2016 was just an outlier, said Goodman-Bhyat. Last year s placement statistics also told another story, however, with gender diversity numbers going nowhere fast. Sadly, the gender diversity numbers have not shifted much at all, said Goodman-Bhyat. She said the typical ratios at executive levels were approximately 30:70 female to male. Appointment of female executives last year clocked in at 32% of the total top level placements, representing only a marginal increase from previous years. At the moment there is nothing to suggest that there is a serious drive by boards to strategically appoint female leaders to key positions. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.