At the roof top of one of the town buildings, mesmerized by the beautiful scenery of the twilight glooming all over the vicinity of the city, Anna Manyanza walks us through the pages of her life as an author. Her trademark smile unveiled her white teeth and shades her face with joy. She stretched and composed herself as she sat upright; her left leg crossed the right. Satisfied with her posture, then that was the green light as she took us in her rather personal journey striding through the path of history to present whilst sharing glimpses of her future prospects. Born and raised in Tanga, Anna is currently residing abroad. Soon after completing her primary and secondary education in Tanzania, she went abroad to study. She holds a Masters in Political Science with minors in Literature and Media Science attained from Germany, 2004. Writing inspiration A proud mother of two, Anna proudly acknowledges her children to be her fundamental impulse to her writing as she reckons to solemnly ventured into serious writing 12 years ago soon after delivering her first child. I heavily involved myself in writing soon after becoming a mother. I, then, scheduled my life in two main aspects. I would parent my children whenever they were awake and soon as they napped I invested that idle time to write, she disclosed. Despite her children being her major source of inspiration, Anna traces her urge to write to be prompted in her early youthful days in school and later in university. I have always been thrilled by works of Frantz Fanon and Steve Biko. I have always idolized the two, among others; and had always thought and aspired to eventually become (an author) just like them. Ms Manyanza has however to some extent been enthused to write as subject to a gender agenda. Growing up I was accustomed to read Shafi Adam Shafi, Shaaban Robert, Ngugi wa Thiong o, Chinua Achebe and the likes. Most of the books I read, then, were written by male authors. Subsequent to her experience, Anna sought to challenge the status quo of male domination over the years in the literary discourse. There were indeed some female writers. I definitely read Bessie Head and the likes but the list of female writers is rather limited as compared to that of the male authors which is intense. Attempting to initiate change Anna took up her pen and paper and decided to start writing. She opted to be the change as she gravely believes that change begins with her. Conscious of the undertakings of her respective society, Ms Manyanza confides her thoughts and experiences in writings as a social commentator. Notwithstanding her devotion to be the voice of women, the author declares her love and interest for the entire community and this therefore resultantly makes her writings to be of diverse topics and agendas rather than being constrained to specific issues. Dependently on her mood or rather an inner calling she would either communicate her thoughts through prose, novels or children stories. Once however she had attempted poetry but never has she considered herself to be one (a poet). Winning in a literary competition Having endured into writing for more than a decade, the author, as of recent, bore the fruits of her devotion as she scooped the prize of the best fiction (prose) category in the Mabati-Cornell Kiswahili Prize for African Literature, 2015 with her novel titled Penzi la Damu . The triumphant in the Mabati-Cornell Prize has had a significant impact to Anna s literary career. And such victory was of a huge relief to her resilience to abide to her calling. I was definitely astonished by the success and so was I massively thrilled to be named the winner of the competition. Ever since the prize posed a tremendous impact in my writing and life in general. Her joy however was not only confined to the accolade she won, but most importantly to the fact that her work was positively received and considered worthy by other literary agents. Grateful to Mabati-Cornell prize, Anna has vowed to further invest in her writing as she seeks to impart more knowledge and change in the society whilst inspiring others to endeavour into writing. I extend my sincere gratitude to Mabati-Cornell; and subsequent to the opportunity they have provided me, I jauntily dedicate my life in literature as I aspire to impact a larger audience. So far the author has 5 children stories, has one short story titled Lucia Mtoto wa Mama published in an EAEP anthology, a manuscript Caf D Afrique submitted in the Commonwealth competition, together with the victorious novel Penzi la Moyo . The winning novel Enthusiastic to her purpose of depicting realities in a rather fictional manner, Ms Manyanza intensively invested nine (9) years of her time, energy and knowledge to the winning novel Penzi la Damu , launched in Dar es Salaam on January 16, 2017. Written in Kiswahili and set within African and European continents, the author artistically analyses the lives of African women in her love novel. She addresses on the consequences of love as within the family and parenting scope, economic perspective and within the general locality whilst providing for the trials, tribulations and position of an African woman in her respective society. Dedicating her book to women and youth, the author articulates that the knowledge and information therein are relevant and essential to be intensively read by the general public. Contemporary literature As she self-proclaim to be utterly inspired by Chinua and Ngugi s literature, Anna however establishes on the divergent nature of contemporary African writers asserting that each generation bares its own agenda. Whereas as our predecessors literatures were centred towards the liberation struggle and post-colonial setting; we contemporary writers have another agenda to our course of writing. We today look at detailed issues rather than collective affairs. We do discuss matters related to education, gender and also question the patriarchy society, amongst others, she insisted. Although the author acknowledges that such affairs had been part of the prior discussion, Anna however established that, such topics not being tentatively addressed, as of then. She further propounds on the opportunities posed to the contemporary author as subject to the massive technological advancement which has be facilitating effective undertaking of the writers with the existence of its numerous platforms. Authors of today s world are privileged with all the technological innovation. So am I as it was the same technology (the internet) that introduced me to Mabati which has offered me this valuable opportunity to explore my writing. Subject to such innovations, yet still Anna believes that since most African societies hardly read, she strongly recommend that parallel to such technological advancement, reading physical literature such as books is crucial. Hobbies Writing may be her prominent trait, but still Anna is a precious gem with diverse characters. She has colossal love for nature whereas to a great extent same nature have precipitated her writing of her published novel; where she would be reminded to write as she glanced at swallows (birds) migrating during altering seasons. Anna however not only adores nature and fancies animals, birds and species; she also envisions them to be entertaining. On the other hand, the author is maniac of music of all genres and also plays Djembe. I listen to Mbaraka Mwinshehe, Miriam Makeba to Fela Kuti. So be it jazz or blues any kind of music I would definitely enjoy and listen to anytime. I also cannot write without listening to music. Appeal to literary stakeholders Being a reader and writer, Anna challenges literary stakeholders, from the government to private entities and authors, to forge an environment that which would facilitate effective cooperation and coordination amongst themselves as they seek to promote the literary purpose of promoting knowledge. Also, Ms Manyanza, an author in Kiswahili literature, urges the younger generation of Africa to venture into writing while most importantly advocating for the use of our African languages and such languages shall pose a political statement. Language is a political tool, she proudly states.