Today, January 11, is the first day of school, and as usual, there were tears and smiles to mark the occasion, Ladysmith Gazette reports. Schools across South Africa started again today, with thousands of pupils flocking to school, bags and lunchboxes in hand. Many moms and dads in tears waved as their grade 1 little ones made their way to what can only be described as an exciting 2017 ahead. Many children were returning to school, while for others it was their first time ever! READ MORE: &#8216;Focus on schools in rural areas&#8217; There were even some parents who let a few tears roll down their faces. Other children were excited to be at this place called school, where they could meet new friends, play with new toys and learn all kinds of interesting new things. Another year of productive schooling has begun! Check images captured by Rekord East in Pretoria Adriaan du Toit started grade 1 at Tuine Primary today. Image: Rekord East. Watch below one of the kids refusing to be taken into class in Ladysmith, KZN. Schools in Estcourt &amp; Midlands in KwaZulu-Natal-Images: First day of school in Mbombela, Lowvelder. Mbombela. Schools in Witbank, check captured images by Witbank News Witbank News. &#8220;The department wishes to provide an update on placement of learners since 9 January 2017. As reported extensively, 58 000 learners had not yet been placed. As of midday 10 January 2016, 18 000 more learners had been placed, reducing the total number of unplaced learners to 40 000,&#8221; said Gauteng department of education s spokesperson, Oupa Bodibe. The Minister is in KZN today for opening of schools in coastal areas. @MorningLiveSABC will cross live to Paulpietersburg Primary. &mdash; Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) January 21, 2015 Bodibe further said: &#8220;The Premier, together with Members of the Executive Council will on 11 January 2017 embark on the School Readiness Campaign to ensure that teaching and learning takes place on Day 1 of the academic programme. All MECs will visit various schools around the province and conduct community meetings in the afternoon to interact with parents and stakeholders.&#8221; The Minister is in KZN today for opening of schools in coastal areas. @MorningLiveSABC will cross live to Paulpietersburg Primary. &mdash; Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) January 21, 2015 Watch below video from South Coast Sun : Cuteness overload. The confident but nervous-looking little guy David-John White chatting about his start in grade one, while colouring in a picture before school started. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;