Two KwaZulu-Natal prosecutors are recovering in hospital after they were attacked in the Scottburgh Regional Court by 22 awaiting trial prisoners who apparently became angry at yet another postponement of their case. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said he was aware of the incident that took place on Monday, but that no case had, as of Wednesday, been opened. According to information that the African News Agency (ANA) has been able to verify through a number of sources, many of whom spoke on condition of anonymity, 22 men accused of being part of a cable theft syndicate became angry when their case was postponed. Lawyers, court orderlies and Magistrate Ambrose Mfayela fled the courtroom, leaving the two prosecutors at the mercy of the 22 men who began throwing furniture around and attacking them. A stenographer and a translator apparently came to their rescue, throwing furniture back at the attackers. The two prosecutors were taken to hospital, and ANA understands that they are expected to spend the weekend there. Magistrate Mfayela could not be reached for comment and the two prosecutors referred all queries to National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara. KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecution Advocate Moipone Noko issued a two-line statement that read: I can confirm that the incident did take place in the Scottburgh Magistrates Court on Monday. Both the advocates are receiving medical attention. She, however, did not answer questions as to why no charges had been lodged against the men following the incident and what security arrangements were in place at the time of the incident. The 22 suspects were believed to be part of a group of 26 who were arrested in 2012. The Daily News reported in September 2014 that there were 189 charges faced by the men and that investigators had needed to go though cellphone data of 1.5 million calls made between the suspects over an 18-month period. The paper further reported at the time that one of the accused, Lindinkosi Xulu, was alleged to have stolen cables from Transnet worth about R388 000. Following the theft in July 2012, a train derailed in Howick/Hilton that resulted in R57 million in damages. This also impacted on 1 700 businesses in the area. The two prosecutors, who work in the NPA s organised crime unit, had apparently long complained about concerns for their security. However, this could not be independently verified. Neither prosecutor, Advocate Annelize Harrison and Advocate Ayesha Bissessur, would speak to ANA, but referred all queries to the NPA. A court official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that on Wednesday, the stenographer, whose first name is known to ANA, had gone to see the doctor. Eh, she is stressed because of these things, said the official. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.