Following the announcement of 2016 Mzansi Magic SA Idols winner, Noma Khumalo, and the unexpected resignation of online streaming radio owner Gareth Cliff from the show, it s time to put your glad rags back on as Mzansi s most loved reality singing show hits the road for an epic 13th season. New, fresh and re-imagined, Idols XIII is about to get even better. The first city to get the Idols SA magic will be Cape Town. This is the place that gave us last season s second runner-up, Tebogo Louw. On Saturday, January 14, the GrandWest Casino will be the place for aspiring pop stars coming to audition for their shot at fame and fortune. The next stop will be Tshwane on Saturday, January 21. Auditions will take place at the Pretoria State Theatre. The highly competitive KwaZulu-Natal will get its chance the following Saturday, January 28, when Idols decamps at The Playhouse in Durban. Season 12 saw no less than four contestants from KZN making it into the Top 10. ALSO READ: WATCH: Riky Rick kills Van Damme with his penis Bringing the roadshow to an end will be Joburg, where the auditions will be held at Carnival City on Saturday, February 4. If you believe in lucky charms, remember that this is the place Noma enjoyed a glitter shower after being announced the winner of Season 12. Mzansi Magic s head of reality, Sphumelele Sibeko, has promised some titillating on-site revelations as part of the revamped Idols SA. It s a known fact that one of our long-time judges, Gareth Cliff, has vacated his seat. Now what everybody wants to know is: who is going to be filling that fourth seat at the judges table? Well, wonder no more. We have lined up an exciting array of guest judges, she says. Cape Town will be hosting R nB crooner extraordinaire Donald. He will be joining the much-loved but equally feared panel of judges comprised of Randall Abrahams, Unathi Msengana and Somizi Mhlongo. Joburg will be treated to the sight of the beautiful and supremely talented Kelly Khumalo on the fourth chair. As for Durban and Pretoria, we are keeping mum on who will be guest judges there, says Sibeko. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.