Metro FM host and actress Khanyi Mbau and Mzansi Magic presenter and producer Sthembinkosi Junior Bikwa, better known as Buji, will co-host one of the biggest music festivals in Mpumalanga. The Mpumalanga Music Concert takes place on Saturday and Sunday at the Mbombela Stadium. The concert is deemed the most prestigious local music festival in the province, bringing world-class musicians and DJs to Mbombela. It is presented by Mpatho Nyoni Events. On Saturday, local personalities will gather to give school uniforms to the young and food parcels and blankets to the elderly. For the organisers, the aim is to raise funds for orphans, underprivileged children and the elderly throughout Mpumalanga. ALSO READ: Superstars liven up amazing auction for a good cause As part of the celebration of 10 years in business we have embarked on a campaign to give back to the community by empowering youth and through the supply of clothes, blankets, uniforms, etc, said Ruben Nyoni, founder of the company. As an important part of the festival, there is also an extensive education and outreach programme that addresses the daily and educational needs of children and schools across Mpumalanga. Many have applauded Mpatho Nyoni Events commitment and dedication to enriching the lives of young people in their local community. At this year s event, the programme involves over 310 school pupils from socially deprived backgrounds. The goodwill for the festival is enormous as evidenced by the many volunteers prepared to give so much of their time to be part of this. Over the next 11 months, our ambition is to give back to the community, said Nyoni. The concert aims at strengthening the productive base of local youth development by teaching basic business enterprise and skills transfer. Mpatho Nyoni Events sees this concept as imperative for the growth of the youth in Mpumalanga province. The concert supports development, economic growth, business development, cultural development and job creation. With a star-studded line-up featuring acts such as Cassper Nyovest, Donald, HHP, Kelly Khumalo, Amanda Black, Emtee and Black Motion, the Mpumalanga music festival is set to ignite the Mbombela Stadium with a celebration of sound and dancing. kgosim@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.