
				                 Despite an extensive search, no sign has yet been found of a Cape Town fisherman who went missing while fishing from the rocks at Pringle Bay near Somerset West on Saturday morning, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said.
NSRI Gordons Bay, NSRI Hermanus, the South African Police Service (SAPS), Western Cape government health EMS, and Betty’s Bay Neighbourhood Watch volunteers all responded to Pringle Bay just before 2pm on Saturday afternoon where a search had been initiated by the family of a 60-year-old Cape Town man who had last been seen fishing from the rocks at 9am, NSRI Gordons Bay station commander Alan Meiklejohn said.
Personal items and the man’s vehicle remained on site and suspicions were that he may have fallen into the sea. Strong winds hampered a search operation carried out by an 18-strong crew made up from all of the services on the scene and by family members who joined in the extensive shoreline search.
“The strong wind and rough seas prevented both a boat search from the sea side and a helicopter search,” he said.
At 6am on Sunday morning, NSRI Gordons Bay dispatched a crew to continue a shoreline search and sea rescue craft from NSRI Gordons Bay and NSRI Hermanus that had launched between 6.30am and 7am were both prevented from getting to the search area by strong wind and rough seas and they returned to base.
The EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter also attempted to reach the area but the high wind prevented it.
“Despite the extensive shoreline search no sign of the missing man has been found. Local fishermen in the area have volunteered to keep a lookout and to alert emergency services if anything is spotted.”
The SAPS and a police dive unit would continue an ongoing search operation and hopes were for the wind to drop to allow for a more thorough search. Police had opened an investigation. “Thoughts are with the family and friends of the missing man at this time,” Meiklejohn said.
Man drowns in river mouth at Still Bay

For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.
                         	                  