Luphurise Mawere, is an author and Founder of Soaring Women International, a company with a vision to equip, encourage and challenge Women to unlock their potential so they can impact their world. Mawere is also a Certified Coach, she helps people to unlock their full potential, enhance self-esteem, change habits and live a life of purpose . Currently she conducts Success Safari Classes, which is life transforming with two classes; the main aim is to change one’s life for the better. Mawere Holds a Masters of Science in Human Resources Management attained from Mzumbe University. She holds an undergraduate in Information Technology from IFM, and also received a Certified in Life Coach from the USA What made you decide to sit down and actually start something? I have gone through tough times in life that I don’t want to see others go through the same. I didn’t know who I am, I was ignorant therefore I went around the same cycle. Because of that, my potential was locked, had low self-esteem and low confidence. I was very broke, I didn’t have money to help me with my daily expenses. I was a complainer, blaming everyone for my failure, and always looking for excuses to remain in the same position  When did you decide to become a writer? Since my childhood I had a passion to write. In 2012, I decided to write through blogging.  Why do you write? Writing is my passion, I love to equip, inspire, motivate, encourage and challenge people to take a step in life through my writings.  So, what have you written? A Book titled “Beauty for Ashes, Practical Principles for Success’ by Luphurise Mawere”.  Where do the ideas come from? The idea came from my life experience .  Which writers inspire you? Myles Munroe, Dani Johnson, Cindy Trimm,Robert Kiyosaki and Joel Osteen.  Where can we buy or see them? House of Wisdom Bookshop, NHC House, Samora,Azania Front Bookshop, Azania Cathedral Posta Mpya ,Elite Bookshop Mbezi Shule and Quality Plaza, Efatha Bookshop Mwenge,and WEBSITE www.luphurise.com  How much research did you do? I did a five years research.  What is the easiest thing about writing? Writing about your life experience is exciting and inspiring .  How many books have you written so far? Which is your favourite? Only one and it’s my favorite, it’s a transformational book, no one has read it and remained the same.  How long on average does it take you to write a book? Three months . Tell us about the covers and how it came about. I wanted the best cover which will be both impressive and informative, so I invested in the best picture, colour and the title.  As a child, what did you want to do when you grew up? What are your ambitions for your writing career? When I was a child I loved to be a teacher and a Leader. I want to take my writing to a higher level; It’s my prayer to become the best-selling author in the world .  What was the hardest thing about writing your latest book? Time was a challenge, having to balance between being a wife, mother, Coach, Enterprenuer and authoring a book. By God’s Grace I managed.  How do you market your books? Currently I market through social media and exhibition in Conferences.  What is your favourite positive saying? Knowledge is what differentiates average and successful people.  What is your favourite book and why? “Sprit Driven Success by Daniel Johnson” It’s a life transforming book, Dani has shared her experience, how she moved from zero to becoming a millionaire, how living by God’s principles has given her real success.  Where do you see yourself in 5 years’ time? I will be the best female Author and Coach in Africa.  Which famous person, living or dead would you like to meet and why? I would like to meet Myles Munroe, Daniel Johnson and Cindy Trimm these people came from normal backgrounds but they refuse to be normal, they have done a great job in the world I am greatly challenged by the words of Myles Munroe “Die Empty” I want to leave a Legacy in the world, I want to touch lives that’s why God created me.  What advice would you give to aspiring writers? They should start now, don’t wait for the right time, the right time is now, there is someone who is stuck somewhere because you have not written your book which has a message to liberate them.  What is your favourite motivational phrase? You cannot do extraordinary things with an ordinary mindset, change your mindset What are the challenges that many Tanzanian writers face. Some Tanzanians don’t like to read books, I was like that some years ago and I found myself on a rat race, but since I have started reading I have been transformed because I have the right information to move me from where I am to where I aspire to be. So my fellow Tanzanians I encourage you to read books, start with one and watch what will happen to your life . You can start with mine it’s a simple book . Also I would like to encourage parents to train their kids to be readers, this way we will have a nation of readers, as we know; “Readers are Leaders”.