
				                 Trainer Tara Laing could get punters away to a flying start on the Fairview Polytrack today when she sends out the filly Klawerkate with Mathew Thackeray aboard in Race 1, a Maiden Plate (Fillies and Mares) over 1000m.
This three-year-old has done well in her five runs on the Polytrack this season – finishing second three times over 1000m.
She can be excused for being unplaced in her most recent outing when heavily backed, as she ran on strongly from off the pace but was unfortunately hampered in the final stages and had to settle for a 1.50-length fifth out of 14 runners. With a trouble-free run she should recoup the losses.
Her main rivals are Seattle Lily, Seattle Splendour, Cover Page and Profs Pet.
The combination also have a good chance of success with Minds Eye who contests Race 5, a Novice Plate (Fillies and Mares) over 1900m.
Since joining Laing’s stable, the four-year-old has been placed in four of her seven starts, the last of which was a promising close second in a 1400m MR 76 Handicap on the Polytrack.
The extra distance this time should not be a concern as just two runs earlier she was a creditable third under 60kg in a Novice Plate over 1800m on the same course.
Best of the others are Ruby Duchess, Gitango Tonight and Miss Hyde.
Laing and Thackeray could also come to light with Flying Rock who steps out in Race 9, a 1000m MR 72 Handicap.
This four-year-old was a smart Novice Plate winner five runs back over the course and distance and has been threatening another win since.
The gelding comes off an encouraging last run when carrying 57.5kg and finishing second, beaten 1.75 lengths by Le Grand Rouge in a 1000m MR 64 Handicap.
Though taking on stronger opposition this time, the two-time winner will be tough to beat with only 53.5kg to shoulder.
However, a strong challenge could come from the likes of Kingston Warren, Mini Loushe and Boldly Respectable.
                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  