
				                 Watch the ANC Conference results live

How the results will be announced
Pandaemonium, ululation and high-decibel level of celebration is expected as soon as the results are announced by the electoral commission this afternoon.
As per tradition those candidates who make the cut will not have much time for song and dance with their supporters. All candidates to the Top Six must be announced within the allocated time without much interruption.
The Top Six leader will be called into the podium and officially release the current NEC as their term of office would have official expired. The newly elected chairperson will take over the running of the conference from Baleka Mbete.
The new leadership will then take charge of the proceedings while it’s not clear whether commissions and policy discussions will continue in the form and timeframes allocated on the original programme which has been altered several times.
The next big item will be the announcement of the NEC, 80 members will be voted in, and expected to be announced to the delegates. The NEC will most probably also handle most of the times deferred from this conference.
Earlier
The following top six positions are being contested by these leaders;
President
Cyril Ramaphosa

Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma

Deputy president

David Mabuza

Lindiwe Sisulu

National chair

Gwede Mantashe

Nathi Mthethwa

Secretary-general

Senzo Mchunu

Ace Magashule

Deputy secretary-general

Jessie Duarte

Zingiswa Losi

Treasurer-general

Paul Mashatile

Maite Nkoana-Mashabane
Earlier
The weakening support base of South Africa’s governing African National Congress has come under close scrutiny at the ongoing 54th national elective conference currently underway in Johannesburg.
The organisational report of the party’s top structure, the National Executive Committee, presented to thousands of delegates at the conference by outgoing secretary-general Gwede Mantashe bemoans the party’s below par performance in the 2016 local government elections and draws a parallel with the fortunes of other liberation movements on the continent after they won power.
“There are indications of a growing trust deficit between society and the ANC. In the second half of this term, we saw a decline in our performance in the 2016 local government elections, dropping by eight percent compared to the 2014 elections,” said Mantashe.
“Of particular concern are the massive losses incurred in the metros, something that threatened to relegate the ANC into a rural party, in a similar manner to other liberation movements that are in decline.”
Mantashe said the collective leadership of the ANC had tried to maintain unity, but factionalism had taken a bitter toll.
“In some instances, decision-making is removed from structures, resulting in them being used as a sounding board or a mere formality. Despite this, the structures are expected to take collective responsibility for and defend decisions they cannot honestly own,” said Mantashe.
“The culture of a vibrant internal democracy, wherein all views are sought and consensus reached based on the best and appropriate action, is almost non-existent. Resultantly, motivated only by the mentality to work any debate or election, results of every conference are appealed immediately [after] they are announced. Court challenges are commonplace option where results do not favour one or the other faction.”
Mantashe had earlier this year expressed dismay that President Jacob Zuma had failed to consult the top leaders of the party before announcing yet another Cabinet reshuffle.
In the hard-hitting report, Mantashe said materialism, particularly the use of money “is a cancer eating away at our organization – both its leadership and membership”.
“We are today faced with a painful challenge, where the entirety of the liberation movement is projected as corrupt. State capture is a reality facing our society, that forms part of public discourse – including the legislature inquiries and private debates. Often, numerous revelations come to the fore, for instance, the Gupta emails some of which are confirmed by those accused,” he said.
Mantashe however said many within the ANC were in denial that state capture was a reality in South Africa.
Earlier
Women contesting the presidency of the African National Congress (ANC) for the first time showed that patriarchy within the governing party has been defeated, said ANC national executive committee member Nomvula Mokonyane.
Patriarchy was “entrenched and deep in the movement”, she told reporters on the sidelines of the party’s national conference taking place in Nasrec, Johannesburg.
“We have broken the back of patriarchy within the ANC…that is one of the things I am celebrating even before (election) results are announced. There has never been a woman candidate before… we made it,” she said.
Out of seven presidential hopefuls, which included two women, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and party deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa emerged as the contenders for the ANC top job on Sunday.
Mokonyane declined nomination as party treasurer after receiving 289 nominations from KwaZulu-Natal on the Dlamini-Zuma slate. She said she declined nomination after reflecting on problems in the governing party and the “need for unity”.
“My view was that let me also demonstrate commitment to unity within the ANC and decline nomination in public, you cannot have three people running for the same position. I think this will be a contribution others will never forget.”
The treasurer position is being contested by Gauteng ANC chairman Paul Mashatile and NEC member Maite Nkoana-Mashabane.
Mokonyane is a staunch supporter of President Jacob Zuma and had rallied behind Dlamini-Zuma’s campaign. However, she was unable to convince Gauteng’s West Rand to pick the former African Union chairwoman.
Dlamini-Zuma’s staunch supporters in the region also include Cooperative Governance Minister Des Van Rooyen and ANC Youth League (ANCYL) Treasurer Reggie Nkabinde. They all failed to convince branches to pick Dlamini-Zuma.
Her province endorsed Ramaphosa in the run up to the conference.
Mokonyane said the ANC should be the winner after the conference and that she would rally behind the new leader elected.
Additional reporting by African News Agency
WATCH: ANC members say they are tired of Zuma, his wife and his son

                         	                  