
				                 Embattled Springbok coach Allister Coetzee was due to present his annual report to the South African rugby bosses in Cape Town on Wednesday and whether he can survive a dreadful two-year stint in charge is anyone’s guess, especially in the midst of contrasting rumours regarding his future of late.
After initial reports suggested Coetzee will make way for Southern Kings mentor Deon Davids in the aftermath of their recent mediocre tour to Europe, there has been fresh talk of Coetzee dodging the bullet once more like he did after the worst Bok season in history in 2016.
But whether he manages to stay on or is replaced by Davids, it seems obvious by now that the coach’s role will be very restricted as newly appointed director of rugby Rassie Erasmus is set to call the shots.
Erasmus returned to South Africa to take up his new role alongside defence guru Jacques Nienaber after the pair returned from Irish outfit Munster.
It is believed Erasmus will be entrusted with all the decision-making at the Boks and that he will either select the squad or have to approve the selection of the national coach, whether someone will be occupying the position of head coach or not.
Coetzee recently quashed rumours linking him with a coaching position in Japan, the country he was plying his trade before being appointed as Heyneke Meyer’s successor early in 2016 and indicated he is keen to see out his contract, which expires after the 2019 World Cup in Japan.
He was defiant that the Springboks are on the up after a season during which his side won seven from 13 Tests, a statistical improvement from 2016 during which they suffered all of eight defeats in 12 matches.
His 44% winning percentage is also well below the reported mandate of 65%.
In a recent online poll, 92% of over 8 000 participants voted that Coetzee couldn’t be fired soon enough, with only 8% believing he needs time and is the right man to take the Boks to the World Cup in 2019.
ALSO READ:
Allister Coetzee fails our Bok performance review

For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 
                         	                  