The Progressive Professionals Forum (PPF) in the North West has welcomed the appointment of former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe as a Member of Parliament. Molefe was an epitome of black professionalism and excellence , North West PPF acting provincial secretary Thapelo Rapoo said in a statement on Saturday. Molefe had performed very well in his previous positions and had received various awards, he said. An unapologetic implementer of radical socio-economic transformation, it was during his tenure as GCEO of Eskom that the company dismantled the white monopolisation of supplying coal to Eskom and saved the company billions of rands from unscrupulous white monopoly owned companies, Rapoo said. On Friday, Parliament confirmed that Molefe would soon be sworn in as a member of Parliament. Parliament wishes to acknowledge the nomination of Mr Brian Molefe to fill a vacancy on the North West list of ANC Members of Parliament which is depleted, spokesman Moloto Mothapo said. Presiding officers of Parliament will determine a date for swearing him in as a Member of Parliament. Molefe quit Eskom in November shortly after the release of former public protector Thuli Madonsela s report State of Capture which detailed extensive contact between him and the wealthy politically-connected Gupta family. She found indications that Eskom had bent over backwards to give a coal supply contract to Tegeta, one of the companies in the Gupta business empire. Molefe is also an enthusiastic proponent of contested plans to build new nuclear reactors to boost South Africa s electricity generation capacity. His nomination as an MP follow weeks of speculation that he would be given a seat on the African National Congress benches to enable President Jacob Zuma to name him as a Cabinet minister, possibly in the place of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Gordhan is due to table the national budget next week, but his current term has been marred by political tension, including an aborted attempt last year to charge him with fraud. The Democratic Alliance was scathing of Molefe s entry into politics. Brian Molefe should never be a Member of Parliament. He is an ethically compromised Zupta buddy with corruption clouds hanging over his head, said DA chief whip John Steenhuisen. This adds credence to the idea that Molefe has his eyes on the finance portfolio, and that a Cabinet reshuffle is imminent, just days before Pravin Gordhan is due to present the budget. He said the nomination confirmed that the ANC did not care about fighting corruption. In fact, it seems you are more likely to rise in the ANC ranks if you are accused of corruption. The DA laid criminal charges against Molefe after the release of Madonsela s report. African News Agency (ANA)