Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini on Tuesday, called for greater unity among political parties in KwaZulu-Natal and that they should avoid the violent scenes witnessed during the President Jacob Zuma s recent State of the Nation Address. Zwelithini, who was delivering the keynote address to mark the official opening of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature at the Royal Showgrounds in Pietermaritzburg, said that no amount of disagreement should result in the fracases that have been witnessed in the national parliament. Parliament has lost its dignity. What used to be a grand occasion when international guests are in our country has become a spectacle where chaos is the order of the day when the international spotlight is in our country, said the monarch. He challenged political parties represented at the legislature not to bring shame to the house. It is not an exaggeration that what we see in national parliament brings shame. I appeal to you as your king, regardless of your political affiliation to work at ensuring that in the KZN Legislature none of the scenes witnessed in parliament takes place in this province, he pleaded. ALSO READ: Suspended Mnquma municipal manager s kickbacks seized He also called for introspection on political parties regarding who they elect to hold public office. According to the monarch there is a danger that some parties are electing people who are just eager to fill their pockets during the five year term in public office. The province and the country needs vision driven and courageous leaders so that future generations do not suffer because of the decisions taken today. As public representatives, ask yourself whether you are still living up to the oath of office. He cautioned the ANC to wisely use the mandate given by the electorate, warning of high levels of poverty in many communities. He also applauded the role played by opposition parties, calling on them to continue with their oversight role and providing alternatives to the province s problems. You are discharging your duties well and that will strengthen democracy, continue in playing that role, he said. He also warned against the growing use of violence to settle political scores, saying the scenes witnessed in the build-up to the August 3 local government elections where people were killed should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. The opening of the legislature lived up to its billing as a colourful event with some cabinet members opting for traditional gear as opposed to the formal two piece suits. The first Premier of KwaZulu-Natal Dr. Frank Mdlalose was part of the audience that included Members of the Provincial Legislature, provincial cabinet members, business leader, councillors and members of the public. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.