The Hungarian government in conjunction with the SA government are awarding 100 full scholarships to local underprivileged hardworking students to further their studies in courses of their choice at Hungary s universities in central Europe. In December last year, the two countries signed a memorandum of understanding in higher education comprising scholarships for three years to South African students wishing to study in Hungary. Ambassador of Hungary in South Africa Andras Kiraly said tuition fees, accommodation, medical insurance and a small allowance are inclusive in the programme and that accepted students will study in English or Hungarian. Applicants will choose from various courses and can study towards a Bachelors degree, Masters or a PhD. ALSO READ: Two more lions mutilated at Limpopo lodge Hungarian universities academic year starts in September and the closing date for 2017-18 intake for scholarships is on March 5 this year. Kiraly said studying in Hungary is much more affordable and back in the 1970s and 1980s, some members of the African National Congress also studied in his country, but not through the scholarship programme. This programme is not something new, we have almost 40 years of experience in handing over scholarships to different students from countries around the world. We are offering 100 scholarships and it is a lot, you don t usually get that many, usually you get three to 10 This is a life changing programme, said Kiraly. He added that new candidates will join about 940 students from other parts of Africa. Gwebikundla Qonde, department of higher education and training director-general, said the 100 that will be accepted will be the first on the programme and both governments will work together towards ensuring they obtain visas to travel to Hungary. It s [programme] giving them an opportunity and they have to make sure they grab this opportunity with both hands. The process of recruitment and selection should be done by March 5 and then we get into other arrangements. They have to realise that this is a full scholarship, it s the entire package assisted by the Hungarian and South African governments, said Qonde. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.