 Without a proper sense of urgency, we will be eventually defeated, dominated and very likely destroyed, wrote former general Michael Flynn, President Trump s national security adviser, in his recent book. They are dead set on taking us over and drinking our blood. It s so early in the new year that nominations for year s most ridiculous statement are not even officially open yet, but this has to be a strong contender. Flynn was talking, believe it or not, about the Islamic terrorist threat . He was predicting that the United States, despite having the world s biggest economy, 325 million people, the world s most advanced technology and more than 4 000 nuclear weapons, faces defeat, domination and probably destruction at the hands of 10 000 or 20 000 Islamist terrorists unless, presumably, it gets serious and starts torturing people again. Even if all of the world s 1.6 billion Muslims were politically and militarily united and committed to a cold or even a hot war against America, the United States would survive. This is not just doomsday talk. It is extremely stupid doomsday talk. But there is a lot of it around at the moment. Take, for example, the famous Doomsday Clock, a metaphorical device concocted by the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists in 1947 to signal how close we are to the end of the world. Midnight was the apocalypse, all-out nuclear war. Last week, the bulletin moved the minute hand of the clock to two-and-a-half minutes to midnight, the closest it has been since the depths of the second cold war in 1984. What s going on here is simply inflation. Terrorism is strategically a mere nuisance and in terms of your personal threat level, it is statistically irrelevant. An American, for example, is 10 times likelier to drown in the bath than to die in a terrorist attack. The scientists who calibrate the Doomsday Clock are not immune to the inflationary trend. The clock was set at seven minutes to midnight during the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 which came close to triggering global nuclear war and killing hundreds of millions of people. Now, they say, it s only two-and-a-half minutes to midnight. Really? Are you sure? However, the people who run the clock have greatly expanded the range of threats they worry about since the risk of a nuclear war declined. They include climate change and the resurgence of old-fashioned nationalism, from America and Britain to India and Japan, and pretty well everything else down to acne and hangnail. There is no fate worse than being ignored. That s how we got to this point, allegedly two-and-a-half minutes to midnight. From seventeen minutes after the end of the Cold War, they pushed the minute hand forward every time anything worrisome happened. So when Donald Trump came to power two weeks ago, frightening people with his reckless talk and impulsive actions, the clock was already at three minutes to midnight and they could only push it forward by another 30 seconds. That s about right in terms of the extra threat Trump represents. It s completely wrong in terms of where the global threat level is now. Trump is a loose cannon, but he s not the apocalypse and most other world leaders are still grown-ups. Let s say 10 minutes to midnight. Gwynne Dyer &nbsp;