The United National Transport Union (Untu) said in a statement on Friday that they planned to take the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) to court in order to force it to protect its own employees against criminals. Untu planned to approach the Western Cape High Court for a special date to apply for an interdict against Prasa. The court is the union s last resort in its fight to protect its Prasa membership, especially train crews, against increasing senseless violent attacks from criminals who know that they are defenseless soft targets, Untu general secretary, Steve Harris, said in a statement. Harris said that the union had tried all other avenues to convince Prasa s management to adhere to their obligations as an employer, to comply to the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and the Constitution by providing a safe working environment for their members, but to no avail. ALSO READ: N West man sentenced to 22 years for armed robbery Over the past eight months, since the execution of train driver, Piet Joubert, in broad daylight at the Netreg station, Untu have had talks with various Prasa managers at the highest levels, including Pearl Munthali and Collins Letsoalo, the Chairperson of the Prasa board, Popo Molefe, Special Advisor to the Minister of Transport, Joe Mojapelo, and Chief Director of Rail operations &amp; Oversight, Mkhacani Godfrey Maluleke. All of them just made empty promises about the safety of our members, said Harris. In a desperate attempt, Untu and its federation, the Federation of Union of South Africa (Fedusa), approached the Deputy President of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa, to urgently intervene to protect what it termed a crucial national asset, passenger rail transport. The unions asked Ramaphosa to convene and chair a task team consisting of the highest leadership levels of Government, represented by the Ministers of Finance, Transport, Police, Small Business, Fedusa, Untu, and Prasa management to urgently address railway safety. Despite informal discussions with Dennis George, General Secretary of Fedusa, about the issue, Ramaphosa also has not yet responded, said Harris. We are stumped and discouraged that there is an understanding or the will by all the stakeholders about the dangerous working conditions our members needs to adhere to. Untu believes that the only way we might be able to get the stakeholders to act, is if the court orders that Prasa employees can withhold their services until their employer guarantees their safety on duty, said Harris. On Sunday, Untu reported on the latest incident, after injured train driver, Willem Spence 52, drove with pieces of glass in his eyes from the Du Toit railway station to Stellenbosch, after an attacker threw a brick that shattered the front window of his train. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.