President Jacob Zuma expressed sadness and sent his condolences to the families of the six people who died while working in a sewer pit at the Natal Naval Base in Bayhead, Durban on Friday. We are devastated by the deaths of these hard working soldiers and their colleagues. It is really tragic for all of them to lose their lives in this manner. This is a most painful and traumatic time for all the families and for all of us, Zuma said in a statement. Three soldiers and three public works department staff died. The Presidency said that it was believed that the three soldiers rushed to the pit to try and assist the public works staff members who were struggling to breathe underground. READ MORE: Mapisa-Nqakula sends condolences after SANDF Naval Base accident Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Maphisa-Nqakula called Zuma to inform him of the accident. This happens just when we were preparing to join the SANDF in Durban for the Armed Forces Day celebration which also marks the centenary of the sinking of the SS Mendi vessel. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families at this difficult and painful time, Zuma said. Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant sent her condolences to the families of the six that died in the accident and said the department s inspectors were dispatched to the scene after 11am to conduct an investigation into the cause of the accident. READ MORE: Update: Six killed, 26 injured in freak accident at SANDF Naval Base in Durban The accident involves inhalation of methane gas by workers who were conducting repairs to a pumped storage in a pit of about 5 metres deep. About 21 Navy officers who tried to rescue the workers were rushed to hospital as they also got affected by the gas, the department said. The Minister wishes to assure the public that measures are currently underway to prevent further loss of lives. Investigations into the matter are currently underway. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.