Research proves that having friends helps us live longer and healthier lives; they help to counter stress and improve one s general happiness, so comedy lovers are strongly advised against missing Riaad Moosa and Friends at Emperors Palace on March 25. Joining Moosa for a night of entertainment are his good friends and some of South Africa s biggest comedy heavyweights: Jason Goliath, Joey Rasdien, Kagiso Mokgadi, Loyiso Gola, Marc Lottering, Schalk Bezuidenhout, Shimmy Isaacs and Simmi Areff, with a special guest appearance by Morgan Beatbox. With this royal flush of SA comedy giants, the show is expected to be hysterical. An award-winning comedian, actor, writer and presenter, Moosa is one of South Africa s most popular funny men. He is a medical doctor too, one who certainly seems to have the remedy for the nation s ills; a healthy dose of laughter. Goliath s infectious energy and laugh has made him a very sought after comic, and Rasdien is instantly recognisable. His endearing stage persona is intellectually absurd, physically hysterical and thought-provoking. Affectionately known as KG, Mokgadi usually takes the audience on a unique journey with a glimpse behind the scenes into his life as the son of a sangoma and a nurse. With a stack of awards, accolades and achievements under his belt, Gola is a comedic force not to be taken lightly. He is best known as the host, co-producer and writer of the Emmy-nominated satirical news show, Late Night News with Loyiso Gola. Hailing from Cape Town, Marc Lottering is another of the nation s top comedians. He has been in the industry for over 16 years, and he continues to keep audiences in stitches across the country and abroad. The only female in the line-up, the hilarious award-winning Shimmy Isaacs, looks at her journey as a confused coloured woman who comes into contact with all sorts of cultural dilemmas from her own race and others. Areff, who has been rated as a top up-and-coming comedian, started his career while completing his journalism degree. Having toured extensively around the country, Areff s tongue-in-cheek comedic style makes him a strong contender in the industry. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.