Anglo American chief executive, Mark Cutifani, on Monday advised industry stakeholders that innovation and resilience were key factors that would reinvent and redefine the mining industry in the near future. Speaking at the 2017 Investing in Africa Mining Indaba in Cape Town, Cutifani said the stage was set for the mining industry to do things differently in order to find new, safe, responsible and cost-effective ways to mine the ore bodies and meet the needs of a rapidly urbanising global population. For Anglo American to secure its future amid ever-changing demands, Cutifani said the miner had to develop a variety of unique approaches which resulted in productivity increasing by around 40% since 2013 at a third less of unit costs. These innovative mining approaches, Cutifani said, saw the global diversified group producing more product in 2016 than it did back in 2012, despite reducing its number of assets from 68 to 42. It is clear to me that innovation holds the key to our future, Cutifani said. READ MORE: ANCWL calls for women empowerment in mining industry And while increased uncertainty and seismic socio-political and economic changes may be our new normal , we must build a more resilient mining industry. Resilient in terms of our investments and our businesses, resilient in terms of our returns to shareholders and resilient in terms of the contributions we make to society. Cutifani was speaking at the 23rd Mining Indaba in Cape Town on Monday. But Cutifani did acknowledged that the mining industry was not out of the woods yet , despite the surprise rebound in iron ore demand and coal prices in the past year. The global mining industry has been facing economic headwinds in the past couple of years due to depressed commodity prices and declining demand, especially in China. For the global mining industry, the past year has brought some reprieve, Cutifani said. While market watchers were ready to sound a death knell on mining s prospects, we are still here: stronger than we were before, despite the continuing ebb and flow of sentiment and prices. Cutifani also derided criticism that the mining industry in South Africa was owned and controlled by an oligarch of white monopoly capitalists, arguing that a growing number of ordinary black people were benefiting from the industry. Many people still don t understand that the owners of most South African publicly listed mining companies are not the Randlords or magnates of the previous generations, but rather, ordinary pension and investment fund owners that is, average South African citizens of all races Black, White, Coloured and Indian, Cutifani said. I hope people will understand that white and even black monopoly capital is a conversation that should be condemned to a difficult and dark South African past. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.