The buzzing atmosphere of a full Wanderers Bullring has always been one of the standout features of South African cricket. But there was also a buzzing of a more natural kind on Saturday as the third one-day international between South Africa and Sri Lanka was interrupted for an hour by a swarm of bees. Midway through the Sri Lankan innings, the players were forced to lie flat on the ground by the swarm, which also colonised wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock s helmet left behind him on the field. Play resumed for a short while but then the umpires took the players off the field. The groundstaff tried to cajole the hive into a wheelie-bin and also sprayed a couple of fire extinguishers on them, which just temporarily dispersed them and presumably made them more angry. Enter one Pierre Hefer, who has obviously been taught the parable of the Good Samaritan. Hefer, who describes himself as a hobbyist beekeeper, said he was sitting at home in Emmarentia watching the cricket and the delay as none of the plans against the bees worked, when he realised he could help. Amazingly, and fortuitously, security allowed him to park outside the stadium and gain entry without a ticket nor accreditation. Being dressed in white overalls, with long boots and gloves and carrying trays containing honey and wax, obviously helped him convince the authorities that he was supplying an emergency service. Hefer said the honey and wax were the key ingredients in attracting the bees into a container. The trick, according to the silver-haired hero of the day, is to keep the bees congregated on whatever they have settled on, making them far easier to move. The Wanderers has seen many heroes during the 61 years it has been in use, but few have been as unlikely as Pierre Hefer, the beekeeper who was sitting at home and came over to help. It was certainly the biggest crowd he has ever performed in front of and the gratitude of the masses who had gathered for the Pink ODI in order to raise awareness and funds for the fight against breast cancer was obvious. The Wanderers South Africa Right now! pic.twitter.com/Jbt3YHCr2t &mdash; Alt Cricket (@AltCricket) February 4, 2017 Bees stopped play! Classically English #SAvSL pic.twitter.com/cU4T8QMgE5 &mdash; neilbaskerville (@baskers_ct) February 4, 2017