London. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger was at a loss to explain his side s appalling first-half display during their surprise 2-1 defeat by Watford at the Emirates Stadium.His side mustered just three wayward efforts on goal in the opening 45 minutes as they allowed Watford to canter into a two-goal lead and damage further their tilt at the Premier League title. It was not good in the first half, especially in the first 20 minutes. We were beaten in the duels and Watford were sharper than us, Wenger admitted after Tuesday s match. Did we think subconsciously that we just had to turn up? I don t know. Honestly we prepared well for the game. Looking at the preparation, I have no basic regret. We knew that Watford would make it very physical and we prepared for that. You do not make 47 points after 23 games in the Premier League if you don t have physical power, but you have to switch it on 100 percent all of the time in the Premier League. We didn t start the way we wanted, but in the second half it was all us and let s be fair, we didn t deserve to lose this game. We hit the bar and (Watford goalkeeper Heurelho) Gomes made fantastic saves as well, so I still think that if you look at the chances, we were unlucky to lose. On top of that we were a bit unlucky with the free-kick for the first goal and then a deflected shot on top of that. Younes Kaboul s deflected free-kick gave Watford a 10th-minute lead and Watford added a second three minutes later when Troy Deeney tucked in the rebound from Etienne Capoue s shot.Arsenal, who replied through Alex Iwobi, travel to leaders Chelsea on Saturday and Wenger insisted his team will not suffer from a hangover from this result.Nor was he comforted by draws for Chelsea, Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur, which limited the ground Arsenal lost. We want to respond against Chelsea and win the game, of course. But we first have to analyse why we didn t start well in this game, said the Frenchman, whose team now trail Chelsea by nine points. I m responsible for the results of the team so I am very frustrated that we did not win the game. We are playing at home, we had a great opportunity and we had a start like we did.(AFP)