The Portfolio Committee on Sport and Recreation has extended condolences to the family and friends of former Springbok captain Joost van der Westhuizen, who passed away earlier on Monday. The Chairperson of the Committee, Beauty Dlulane, said the rugby player was among the young people who opted to take on a leadership role through sport in South Africa in the dawn of the country s democracy. Joost was one of the best representatives South Africa has ever put forward as an ambassador, so recognisable and so patriotic. He is part of our history and our history will forever be part of him. Meanwhile, the African Christian Democratic party (ACDP) leader, Rev Kenneth Meshoe, has also hailed the 45-year-old legend saying he was an example and inspiration to many. The ACDP extends heartfelt condolences to Joost van der Westhuizen s family and friends on his passing. We salute his brave struggle to live a life of quality and meaning despite having motor neuron disease. The former Springbok scrum-half had been battling motor neuron disease since 2011, Meshoe said. Joost played 89 times for the Springboks and was part of the squad that won the 1995 Rugby World Cup. He also captained the Springboks at the 1999 Rugby World Cup. Earlier The National Freedom Party on Monday expressed its condolences at the passing of rugby legend. This is an incredibly sad day. Not only was he one of the best rugby players in South Africa, he was also part of the Springbok team that become victorious from the 1995 Rugby World Cup victory, which was the best team in the world at any given time, NFP spokesperson Sableo Sigudu said. Sigudu said that the NFP wished to convey its condolences to van der Westhuizen s family and friends across the world. He said the passing of the rugby legend was a loss to South African rugby and a loss to the country. Van der Westhuizen lost his long battle against motor neuron disease on Monday when he died at the age of 46 in a Johannesburg hospital. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.