The African National Congress (ANC) in Gauteng s West Rand region has dismissed as fake news a claim by one of its branches that former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe is a member of their branch. A media invitation issued late on Tuesday evening, supposedly sent by the governing party s Bazooka Mpetsheni branch (Ward 32), on the West Rand, said it had evidence Molefe was a member of its branch. The branch said it wanted to set the record straight on the misleading information that has been spread by some who claim to be the leadership of our branch when they re not . The advisory added: The ANC in Ward 32 maintains that comrade Brian Molefe is our member in good standing, and we are prepared to back this up with evidence. This followed another a similar claim by the ANC in Tshwane, which disputed the Hartbeespoort Dam branch s proof that Molefe was a member of Ward 29 in good standing. The ANC in Tshwane s secretary, Paul Mojapelo, said Molefe was a member of the Irene branch in Pretoria. ALSO READ: Replacing Jonas with disgraced Molefe a blow to SA s integrity At a press briefing to clarify the branch membership status of the former Eskom CEO, Hartbeespoort branch chairperson Bethuel Mmutle produced Molefe s paid membership application form from 2011 up to 2015 as evidence that he had been a member in Ward 29 of Madibeng. HARTBEESPOORT, SOUTH AFRICA FEBRUARY 21: African National Congress (ANC) North West leader Papi Ratele during a press conference to clarify Brian Molefe s party membership on February 21, 2017 in Hartbeespoort, South Africa. ANC leaders produced two membership forms as proof that former Eskom chief Brian Molefe belongs to one of the region s branches. (Photo by Gallo Images / Beeld / Cornel van Heerden) The ANC alleged that Molefe was a victim of a deliberate targeting of black intellectuals by capitalists. ANC West Rand spokesperson Refentse Mangope said the media invitation purporting that Molefe belonged to Ward 32 was circulated by people hellbent on tarnishing the name of the branch and the party s leadership. Speculation is rife that Molefe is set to be appointed as the country s finance minister by President Jacob Zuma, or at least become Pravin Gordhan s deputy, replacing Mcebisi Jonas who blew the lid on how the controversial Gupta family allegedly offered him the finance minister post by bribing him. It is unclear when the office of parliament speaker Baleka Mbete will confirm a date and time for the swearing-in ceremony of Molefe as a member of the National Assembly. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.