Regular brushing and flossing remains your best protection against tooth decay and gum problems. But a tooth-friendly diet can also help keep your smile bright and your gums healthy. A balanced diet can help promote healthy teeth. Many nutrients, including vitamin C, vitamin D, calcium and others, are essential to oral health. Along with eating a healthy diet, it s smart to limit snacking. The flow of saliva cleanses the mouth and teeth, removing cavity-promoting foods. But if you snack all the time, you expose your teeth again and again to foods that can erode your teeth enamel. The best advice to prevent cavities is to limit your eating to three meals a day. If you snack, reach for a food that s less likely to cause tooth decay. Foods to avoid for unhealthy gums and teeth: Sugary drinks: When bacteria in the mouth break down simple sugars, they produce acids. These acids can erode tooth enamel, creating pits where cavities can form. Sugary drinks, including soft drinks and fruit drinks, consist almost entirely of simple sugars. Some studies have singled out sports drinks as the worst offenders for eroding enamel. Candy and highly-sweetened snacks: Most candies are loaded with sugar, which increases acid levels from bacteria in the mouth. Sticky and gummy candies pose the biggest threat, since they adhere to teeth, making it hard for saliva to wash them away. Some starchy foods: Starches also raise acid levels from bacteria in the mouth, eroding tooth enamel. Starchy foods include breads, pastas, rice, and potatoes. The more refined or cooked a starch, the more likely it is to raise acid levels in the mouth. Raw starches in the form of vegetables tend not to endanger tooth enamel. Sugary breakfast cereals: Foods that contain a mixture of sugar and starch should be avoided. Snacks such as ready-to-eat breakfast cereal, pastries, and many processed foods may be bad for teeth. The combination of starch and sugar is more likely to get stuck in plaque between teeth. Coffee, tea, and red wine: Sweetened tea or coffee raises acid levels, weakening enamel. And because they are often sipped slowly, acid levels may remain high over a longer period of time, raising the danger. Coffee, tea, and red wine also tend to stain teeth. Foods to choose for healthy, white teeth: Water: The best thirst quencher is also the smartest choice for your teeth. Water helps wash acid-producing foods from the mouth. Sugar-free drinks: If you like your water sweetened, choose sugar-free drinks. Sugar-free chewing gum: Chewing gum increases the flow of saliva, which helps neutralise acids in the mouth, protecting tooth enamel. Citrus fruit: Although it is acidic, citrus fruit increases saliva flow. In fact, research shows that oranges, grapefruits, and other citrus fruit tend to protect tooth enamel, as it contains a lot of water; it also helps wash away acid-producing bacteria. But always remember excess of anything is bad. Cheese and milk: Cheese and milk protect tooth enamel and ward off cavities in several ways. They encourage saliva production, which neutralises acids in the mouth. Fish and flax: Omega-3 fatty acids are the most potent anti-inflammatory nutrients. This form of fat is found in fish, fish oil, and flaxseed. Cocoa: Substances found in cocoa appear to help protect against erosion and decay. Even chocolate milk, although it contains some sugar, doesn t seem to increase the risk of cavities compared to snacks like cookies, chips, and raisins. Dark chocolate is a good choice, since it is lower in sugar than milk chocolate. Surprisingly, the difference between a healthy smile and frequent visits to the dentist might be your diet. Even if you have a perfect oral hygiene routine, it might be hard to keep your teeth healthy if you don t watch what you eat.