The brother of Joost van der Westhuizen described the former Springbok as an unrelenting optimist at the player s public memorial service at Loftus Versfeld on Friday. Pieter van der Westhuizen cared for his ailing sibling throughout his illness and paid an emotional tribute. He was always a positive man, even during his illness, said Van der Westhuizen. That was always the spirit of Joost, he always made the most of life and never looked back. I will honour you for the simple man you were around us [family] and the legend you were to the world. ALSO READ: WATCH: Joost van der Westhuizen receives a hero s farewell President of the South African Rugby Legends Association Gavin Varejes was the first speaker to pay tribute to Van der Westhuizen. I don t want to mourn his death, but celebrate his life. I remember that day in 2011 when Joost came to share the terrible news of his illness with me, said Varejes. The words give up were never in his vocabulary. The national anthem was sung before a SA Police Service representative draped the coffin in the SA flag. Earlier, a private service for close family and friends ended shortly after 11am, and the casket of Van der Westhuizen was escorted to Loftus. Tribute by Francois Pienaar Pienaar paid tribute to his former teammate in his final sendoff for the former scrumhalf. In the days of amateur rugby, Joost had a professional approach. On the field, he played like a rock star, off the field, he played like a rock star. Because after all, he was a rock star. He was funny, and naughty, said Pienaar. Joost became a legend not once, but twice his latest in his fight against MND. The class of 95 is saying goodbye to another legend today. Joost was rare and wonderful. Wife Amor pays emotional tribute We stand here at Loftus, the place Joost called home. Since Joost died, I ve thought about when we first fell in love. Together we travelled the world. He was a real competitor and encouraged me to live life to the full, said Vittone. We were parents of Kylie and Jordan, who were one of his greatest delights. They were one of the reasons he fought this illness so hard. He showed them how to be a fighter. I m sure Joost is somewhere now sprinting down some green rugby ground, ball tucked under his arm, free from illness. The children wanted me to say, dadda you made the world to us. Thank you for always caring for us. We love you, we love you, and will miss you. You will live on in our hearts forever. Niece Sumari Botha sang a heartfelt rendition of her song Number 9 , and by the end of the performance, the panel assembled on stage were reduced to tears. Chairperson of World Rugby Bill Beaumont said Van der Westhuizen was one of the finest players ever to play the game. Not only was he extremely determined and skillfull, he set the standard for the modern scrumhalf, said Beaumont. I was a spectator at the 1995 World Cup final at Ellis Park. I think that is the greatest sporting event I ve ever been to. And Joost was at the heart of that. Everyone remembers the three great tackles he made on the late Jonah Lomu. I hope that the legacy of the J9 foundation will continue to grow. He will be greatly missed, but he will leave behind a legacy of passion and intensity that will continue to inspire for generations. Watch the memorial below For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.