At the second day of the fourth round of the Arusha inter-Burundian peace talks, the Burundi government has requested the Tanzanian government to arrest some of the opposition leaders who are wanted by the Burundi justice. They had arrived in Arusha on Thursday from different countries where they took refuge in, to attend the peace talks negotiated by the Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and facilitated by the former Tanzanian president Benjamin Mkapa. In the letter sent to the Tanzanian government on Friday, the government of Burundi, through its Ambassador to Tanzania, said some of the wanted personalities were in Arusha for the inter-Burundian dialogue . Two days ago, the Government of Burundi had announced it could never partake in this round of talks until the facilitator removed from the participants list, all those it described as the violent actors . The members the National Council for the Restoration of the Arusha Accords and the Rule of Law (CNARED), the main opposition coalition in exile, who are now participating to the dialogue in Arusha, are among those described as the violent actors by the Burundi government. The Burundi government did not send any delegation to the Arusha. At his arrival to Arusha on Friday, the Secretary General of the ruling party Evariste Ndayishimiye announced his party could not either sit on the same table with the CNARED leaders. Following this blocking, Mkapa, decided to consult participants in separated groups in closed door. The constituents of the groups were the former presidents, former politicians, opposition leaders, ruling party and the ombudsman s team. The main points discussed were the security situation, the restoration of diplomatic relations and sanctions against the country, the repatriation of the refugees and the economic situation. The former Tanzanian president recommended the Burundi government to stop the process of changing the constitution which is underway. The political climate is not favourable for this exercise, he said. The Arusha peace agreement has also to be respected. However, for the ruling party CNDD-FDD Secretary General, the country regained the peace and stability . He asked the facilitator to rather work on the repatriation of the refugees. This fourth round of peace talks began on Thursday and is to be closed on Sunday with the signature on what they will have agreed on. It s the second time Tanzania has been helping Burundians to bridge their differences. A decade and half ago, a deal brokered in Arusha led the foundation for one of the longest civil wars in Central Africa. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.