Tripoli International Airport at Qasr Ben Ghashir, which was destroyed in 2014 by militias, is to be reopened on Friday, on the sixth anniversary of the 2011 Libyan Revolution that saw the defeat and subsequent death of former Libyan leader and dictator Muammar Gadaffi. The airport will be reopened by Khalifa Ghwell, the leader of the Libya Dawn militia, which was responsible for the airport s destruction. Last October, Ghwell resurrected his National Salvation Government (NSG) when gunmen helped him seize Tripoli s Rixos complex. He subsequently declared the Presidency Council and the overthrow of the internationally recognised Government of National Accord (GNA) and announced that the NSG was back in power. When Ghwell announced last year that Tripoli s international airport was being rebuilt there was widespread incredulity, the Libya Herald reported on Sunday. A video he put out showed a single digger pecking at a tangle of reinforcing steel. The main terminal was completely destroyed in August 2014 a day after a Misratan militia commander Salah Badi took the airport from Zintani militiamen who had run it since the Revolution. During the fight at least three passenger planes were completely destroyed and most of the others damaged beyond repair. The control tower was also hit. Meanwhile, the US has expressed serious concern about the formation of the so-called Libyan National Guard (LNG), the new hard-line military formation that rejects the Presidency Council and backs the supposed government of Khalifa Ghwell. Based in Tripoli, is it is made up in large part of Misratan forces together with a number of Amazigh (or Berber militiamen and a few local gunmen). The deployment has the potential to further destabilise the already fragile security situation in Tripoli, the US state department said. Libya should work to build a unified national military force under civilian command that is capable of providing security for all Libyans and combating terrorist groups. Disunity and lack of coordination among Libyan forces only benefit the Islamic State (IS) and other terrorist groups seeking to exploit Libyan territory and resources. After announcing its formation over the weekend the LNG claimed that its main purpose was the eradication of extremist groups, including the IS.