Fresh juice doesn t have to be green or full of spinach or kale to be healthy. Pomegranate juice contains more than 100 phytochemicals. The pomegranate fruit has been used for thousands of years as medicine.Today, pomegranate juice is being studied for its many uses in health. It may help with cancer prevention, immune support, and fertility. Here are some of the potential benefits.AntioxidantsPomegranate seeds get their vibrant red hue from polyphenols. These chemicals are powerful antioxidants. Pomegranate juice contains higher levels of antioxidants than most fruit juices.It also has three times more antioxidants than green tea. The antioxidants in pomegranate juice can help remove free radicals, protect cells from damage and reduce inflammation.Vitamin CThe juice of a single pomegranate has more than 40 per cent of your daily requirement of vitamin C. This will aid in keeping your immune system in check.Cancer preventionPomegranate juice was recently all over the news when researchers found that it may help stop the growth of prostate cancer cells. Despite multiple studies on the effects of the juice on prostate cancer, results are still preliminary and not conclusive.While there hasn t been long-term studies with humans that prove that pomegranate juice prevents cancer or reduces the risk, adding it to your diet has no disadvantages.Alzheimer s disease protectionThe antioxidants in the juice and their high concentration are believed to stall the progress of Alzheimer disease and protect memory.DigestionPomegranate juice can reduce inflammation in the gut and improve digestion. It may be beneficial for people with Crohn s disease, ulcerative colitis, and other inflammatory bowel diseases.ArthritisFlavonols in pomegranate juice may help block the inflammation that contributes to osteoarthritis and cartilage damage. The juice is currently being studied for its potential effects on osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and other types of arthritis and joint inflammation.Heart diseasePomegranate juice is in the running as the most heart-healthy juice. It appears to protect the heart and arteries.Small studies have shown that the juice improves blood flow and keeps the arteries from becoming stiff and thick. It may also slow the growth of plaque and buildup of cholesterol in the arteries.But pomegranate may react negatively with blood pressure and cholesterol medications like statins. Be sure to talk with your doctor before indulging in the juice or taking a pomegranate extract supplement.It s important to understand that green juice isn t the only healthy option out there. Adding pomegranate juice to your diet may reduce your risk for chronic disease and inflammation. It s also a great way to get the fruit s nutrients and a boost of antioxidants.