A Warrant Officer, who was also accused of the murder of former crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli s love rival, Oupa Ramogibe, told the South Gauteng High Court on Monday, that he was offered more than R1 million by police to implicate Mdluli in the murder. Samuel Dhlomo, a court orderly, took the stand on Monday, and for the first time revealed how different officers tried to persuade him to change his statement regarding Ramogibe s death in order to implicate Mdluli as the mastermind behind the crime. Dhlomo said before his arrest, two police officers came to his house and asked him if he was the one who wrote a statement concerning Ramogibe s death. They asked me if the station commander [Mdluli] had assisted me in writing the statement. I told them no one assisted me and I wrote the statement on my own, he said The told me if there s anything I m hiding I will be arrested with Mdluli. They were suspecting that I was covering up for Mdluli. He said the officers left him with a copy of the statement and returned after three days and asked him if he doesn t wish to change anything concerning the statement. Dhlomo said after his arrest in 2011 March, he was detained in Pretoria but his problems started as soon as he was transferred to Parys Barrage. He explained that an officer approached him and told him to tell the truth because they know Mdluli is the one who had sent him to kill Ramogibe. He told me that he s here to make things easy for me and asked me to admit that Mdluli had assisted me in making my statement. Dhlomo said he was promised a house in Durban or Cape Town, free education for his children, a job opportunity for his unemployed wife and cars. This was a routine every time I was transported to and from Boksburg court for my bail application. He said the officers escalated the measures and promised him more than R1 million if he changed his statement and incriminate Mdluli on the murder charges. They tried everything, they would buy me cigarettes and newspapers, but I made it clear that I m not prepared to do what they want. During cross examination, State prosecutor Deon Barnard asked Dhlomo why he had never mentioned anything before. None of the allegations were mentioned during his bail application or to his legal representative. There was no obligation for him not to mention how police tried to bribe him. Even at the inquest he didn t make mention of it. Barnard said he didn t understand why Dhlomo never said anything if he wasn t intimidated or under duress as he had told the court. I didn t say anything because I wasn t asked anything relating to the matter and I also didn t want to say anything, Dhlomo said. Mdluli was appearing on charges relating to the 1999 kidnapping of the late Oupa Ramogibe who allegedly had an affair with Mdluli s lover, Tshidi Buthelezi. Mdluli and his co-accused Mthembeni Mthunzi face charges of intimidation, kidnapping, assault with the intent to commit grievous bodily harm and defeating the ends of justice. The matter was postponed to February 8. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.