Australian Rugby Union (ARU) and the Rugby Union Players Association (RUPA) are shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the tragic passing of former Wallabies, Brumbies and NSW Waratahs lock Dan Vickerman. Vickerman passed away at his family home in Sydney on Saturday night. He was just 37 years of age. The giant lock played 63 Tests for the Wallabies in an international Rugby career spanning a decade from 2002-2011. His final Test appearance was the 2011 Rugby World Cup semi-final against New Zealand in Auckland. Born in Cape Town, and schooled at Bishops, Vickerman moved to Australia with his family as a 21-year-old when he linked with the Brumbies and made his Super Rugby debut in the 2001 season. The following year, he was called on for Australia A duties for a match against Canada, and in June 2002 made his Test debut in a 31-25 Wallabies victory over France at Stadium Australia. After three seasons and 33 appearances for the Brumbies, he was signed by the Waratahs in 2004 and played five seasons and 53 matches in the sky blue jersey. After playing in his second Rugby World Cup in 2007, he withdrew from international Rugby for three years to study in England. Vickerman earned a degree in Land Economics from Cambridge University and played in two Varsity matches whilst studying at the University, captaining the side to 31-27 victory over eternal rival Oxford in 2009. Whilst in England he also had a short stint with Premiership club, Northampton Saints, with whom he played four matches in the 2009-10 season. The 204cm powerhouse then returned to Australia to continue his career with the Waratahs and Wallabies, earning a place in the Wallabies 2011 Rugby World Cup squad. He was forced to retire from the game through injury in 2012. ARU CEO, Bill Pulver said: The Rugby world is in shock today after news of the tragic passing of Dan Vickerman. Dan was an uncompromising competitor who forged a wonderful international Rugby career despite a number of injury setbacks along the way. He was an enforcer on the field and a much-loved character off the field. He cared deeply about the game and the players, helping players transition into life after Rugby in his role with RUPA following his retirement. Our thoughts and prayers are with Dan s family at this extremely difficult time. RUPA CEO, Ross Xenos said: On behalf of all players, we extend our deepest sympathies to Dan s young family at this difficult time. We are truly shocked and united in our despair. Dan was universally respected by his peers and the rugby community during and beyond his playing days. Since retiring, he was very generous in giving back to the game through coaching and voluntary roles supporting players off-field development. We encourage all players who are affected by today s terribly sad news to support and be there for each other and to contact RUPA if they would like to talk. With respect to the Vickerman family, the ARU will make no further comment at this time. African News Agency (ANA)