Trio arrested after police received information on different incidents about them carrying dagga in Mpumalanga, Mpumalanga News reports. Dagaa recovered from Ntomfuthi Mncina. One of the suspects, Mr Dumile Magozola (23), was arrested at 07:10 on February 23 after police received information about his suspicious looking bag in a taxi at Nhlazatshe Taxi Rank, that was heading to Middelburg. Police responded promptly, searched the taxi and discovered five rolls of compressed dagga sealed with sello-tape, stashed inside Magozola s green luggage. The dagga weighed 12,529kg. According to Constable Peace Mbokane, spokesperson for Elukwatini police, the suspect alleged to had bought the dagga from Swaziland and was heading to Cape Town for business. READ MORE: Dagga worth millions seized by police The second suspect was also arrested at the same taxi rank when police were tipped off about a suspicious looking man. Mr Vuyani Meshack Maree (38), was found in possession of compressed dagga weighing 9,615kg. He also alleged to had bought the dagga from Swaziland and was on his way to Cape Town to sell them. Still on the same day, the police received a third tip-off which led to the arrest of 41 year old, Ntombifuthi Mncina, in a bus from Oshoek. She was found with two bags containing 36,104kg of dagga worth an estimated street value of R7 500. The three suspects appeared in Eerstehoek Magistrate Court on February 24 on the charges of dealing in dagga. All suspects were remanded in custody and will appear in the same magistrate court on March 1. The police appreciate the community for joining hands with them in the fight against crime, especially drugs. Would be dealers in the area should know that no suspects will live in the ivory tower of dealing in dagga in our area. While dagga remains a prohibited drug, we will hit the market hard in order to protect the inhabitants of the Republic from the negative effects of this dependence producing drug, says Mbokane. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.