I have happened to meet men and women at outpatient departments (OPDs), and at times at Care and Treatment Centers (CTCs); willing to test for HIV but lacking the courage to actually do it.It s rather important to know your status. The Centre for Disease Control (CDC) recommends that everyone between the age of 13 and 64 should get tested for HIV at least once as part of the routine health care.Tanzania National guideline of HIV/AIDS Management (published in 2015, MOHSW) clearly stipulates the components of HIV testing and counseling in the course of addressing the situation. Such components are pre-test session, HIV test, post-test session, linkage to follow-up services and ongoing support.HIV test seen as a tabooA man visited my office for health checkup. Having kept him at liberty to tell me what he wanted to be screened for, he mentioned all the tests and kept the HIV test at the end. One would think he mentioned it last because he had forgotten it but as a doctor, I know he was trying to buffer his worries and shyness over it.In the end, I discovered that his sole and first purpose was to test for HIV but he was not brave enough to mention it in the first place.Many others cannot say it plainly like this, I have come to test for HIV , thus they would prefer to beat around the bush. You will always hear someone saying humbly, Nimekuja kupima afya yangu ( I have come for health checkup ), or he/she would say Nimekuja kupima damu kubwa. The other day I ordered full blood picture for damu kubwa, then having probed my patient in a non-condemnatory way, I came to realise that he meant testing for HIV in lieu of damu kubwa .Is testing for HIV such a scary affair? Well, in testing for HIV you must carry the same courage that you demonstrate whilst testing for malaria.Some people don t want to be tested on the grounds that they are having monogamous relationship. That s a lame excuse. The point is, just take the courage, get tested but also you should find out whether your partner is infected or not, you may be baffled to learn that she/he is HIV positive.Then, on another occasion, I encountered a person who asked me whether her baby in her womb was safe from HIV, since she was HIV positive.Mind you, nowadays HIV transmission from the mother to the baby can be prevented and therefore testing while you are pregnant is important too.Testing protocolIn yet another incident, a woman came at the hospital with her heart fluttering. Her first statement on arrival was, Doctor, you know yesterday I had sex with a strange person whose status is questionable, thus I want to know whether I m infected or not, I m puzzled! Normally in Tanzania , doctors use antibody rapid test to test for HIV. Antibodies are produced by your body when you are exposed to HIV among other culprits and it takes less than 30minutes for the results to be ready. News is that it can take 3-12 weeks for your body to produce enough antibodies for the rapid antibody test to detect--this is called window period .It is said that 97 per cent of people will develop detectable antibodies during this window period.Thus simply put, those who are infected, almost all will test positive at 3months and the rest will test positive at 6months but if you test negative during window period you should be re-tested after 3months from the time of exposure, in the event if your HIV test is positive.Further confirmatory tests should be done, and then treatment should follow as per treatment protocols.In Tanzania someone can go to test for HIV at voluntary testing and counseling centers (VCT centers), some popularly known as Angaza centres .In public and private hospitals, there are special departments known as CTC (HIV Care and treatment centres ), where there are committed individuals dedicated to offer testing, counseling , HIV treatment and care.A year ago, a friend of mine tested for HIV whereby he was found to be negative. He showerd his happiness on social media by posting the results. Upon asking his girlfriend to go for a test too, she said, No, there is no need for me to test for HIV, since you are negative, then why should I test too because I will also be negative? It doesn t guarantee the fact that if you re HIV-negative, that your partner is negative also. It is important for your partner to get tested too.HIV is not necessarily transmitted every time you have sex. Moreover, getting tested together is important owing to the fact that your partner may not know or may be wrong about his status or he/she may intentionally lie to you about his/her status.At last I would recommend that HIV test should available everywhere as a freebie, people should be made courageous and curious about HIV testing.Go and test. When you know your status, your life becomes bearable and a fulfilling one, I would say your HIV status is your life , you have to know it timely.Dr Lugano Wilson (medical doctor, researcher and young scientist).