South African Airways (SAA) said on Wednesday that its legal counsel would study the judgement and advise it on how to proceed on litigation involving anti-competitive behaviour with Comair. This comes after the South Gauteng High Court awarded Comair a R1.16 billion settlement in its case against SAA in respect of its travel agent incentive schemes, which was found to be anti-competitive. Though SAA said it would not debate any merits of the case in the media, spokesperson Tlali Tlali said this was one of the legacy matters, dating back to the period between 1999 and 2005 and implemented by the then management team. Tlali said all of those managers left the airline a while back and new business management processes were since introduced to ensure compliance with all relevant prescripts. The current management is focused on turning the business around to ensure that SAA is commercially viable, operationally competitive and financially self-reliant in the shortest time possible, he said. A number of interventions will be implemented and others have already been initiated aimed at ensuring positive business improvements take place in a matter of months. Earlier The South Gauteng High Court on Wednesday awarded a R1.16 billion settlement to Comair in its case against South African Airways (SAA) in respect of its travel agent incentive schemes, which was found to be anti-competitive. This comes after Comair and Nationwide Airlines accused SAA 14 years ago of implementing an incentive scheme to travel agents that kept the agents loyal to the state-owned airline and excluded competitors, a violation of the Competition Act. The Competition Commission reached settlement with SAA in 2006 to end the practice, but Comair pursued litigation nonetheless. In terms of the judgment, SAA was ordered to pay Comair R554 million plus interest at 15.5%, and costs amounting to about R1.16 billion. Comair operates British Airways and its low-cost brand, kulula.com As this has been a long and complex matter the company will need time to study the judgement, Comair said in a statement. The judgment was subject to appeal by both parties. Comair on Tuesday posted a R199 million profit after tax for the six month period ending 31 December compared to R84 million in the previous period SAA was not immediately available for comment. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.