He was admitted to the Fourways Life Hospital in Johannesburg. Rapport has revealed that he had a sudden decline in his condition on Friday, among other things being short of breath. His youngest brother Gustav said Joost was maintaining his fighting spirit. The family says they have been distressed by false reports of Joost&#8217;s death. His J9 Foundation wrote on Facebook on Sunday morning: &#8220;Joost remains in ICU in a critical but stable condition. He is responding well to his loved ones and putting up an incredible fight. He really is our Superman!&#8221; The Bok legend has been battling motor neuron disease for more than five years. He was confined to a wheelchair for the past few years. His J9 Foundation asked on Facebook on Saturday for people to pray for Van der Westhuizen, who was diagnosed with motor neuron disease in 2011. He has defied normally very negative prognoses for the disease, which is known to claim lives within the first year or two of diagnosis, though Van der Wethuizen s initial prognosis was two to five years. His foundation wrote: The family and friends of Joost ask that you all pray for Joost. He was taken to hospital earlier today and is in a critical condition. We ask that you all please respect the families time at the moment. Van der Westhuizen was a member of the triumphant rugby team that won the World Cup in 1995 and held the record of 38 tries for nearly two decades. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. His J9 Foundation asked on Facebook on Saturday for people to pray for Van der Westhuizen, who was diagnosed with motor neuron disease in 2011. He has defied normally very negative prognoses for the disease, which is known to claim lives within the first year or two of diagnosis, though Van der Wethuizen s initial prognosis was two to five years. His foundation wrote: The family and friends of Joost ask that you all pray for Joost. He was taken to hospital earlier today and is in a critical condition. We ask that you all please respect the families time at the moment. Van der Westhuizen was a member of the triumphant rugby team that won the World Cup in 1995 and held the record of 38 tries for nearly two decades.