Excitement is in the air after Nickelodeon s announcement of the nominees for this year s Kids Choice Awards, the only live event where children s votes count and the biggest stars on the day get slimed . Drafting from a pool of media platforms (including TV, film, music and pop culture), this eagerly-awaited spectacle takes place at University of Southern California s Galen Centre in Los Angeles, the US, on March 11. Hosted by WWE star wrestler John Cena, the awards ceremony renowned for its unpredictability will feature nine new unique categories, like Most Wanted Pet, Favourite Frenemies and #Squad, among others. Local kids done good in this year s Favourite African Star category include Wayde van Niekerk, Trevor Noah, Pearl Thusi, Lupita Nyong o, Yemi Alade and Funke Akindele Bello. Also duking it out for an award on the night will be internatrional stars Ben Affleck, Chris Evans, Idris Elba, Megan Fox, Lukas Graham, Kevin Hart, Scarlett Johansson, Dwayne Johnson, Felicity Jones, Leslie Jones, Anna Kendrick, JoJo Siwa and Melissa McCarthy, among others. After ruling the Billboard and iTunes charts, The Chainsmokers make their Kids Choice Awards nominee debut with two nods for Favourite Music Group and Favourite New Artist. Also vying for musical top honours will be musos Bruno Mars, Justin Timberlake and Twenty One Pilots, each with four nominations. Adele, Beyonce, Meghan Trainor and Fifth Harmony have each received the nod for two nominations. Some of the nominees and categories: Favourite TV Show Kids Show Game Shakers Girl Meets World Henry Danger Nicky, Ricky, Dicky &amp; Dawn The Thundermans Favourite Cartoon ALVINNN!!! and The Chipmunks SpongeBob SquarePants Teen Titans Go! Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles The Amazing World of Gumball The Loud House Favourite Male TV Star Benjamin Flores Jr (Triple G, Game Shakers) Aidan Gallagher (Nicky, Nicky, Ricky, Dicky &amp; Dawn) Jack Griffo (Max, The Thundermans) Jace Norman (Henry, Henry Danger) Casey Simpson (Ricky, Nicky, Ricky, Dicky &amp; Dawn) Tyrel Jackson Williams (Leo, Lab Rats) Favourite Female TV Star Rowan Blanchard (Riley) Dove Cameron (Liv and Maddie) Lizzy Greene (Dawn, Nicky, Ricky, Dicky &amp; Dawn) Kira Kosarin (Phoebe) Breanna Yde (Tomika, School of Rock) Zendaya (K.C. Undercover) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.