The Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) on Monday said President Jacob Zuma had the prerogative to appoint or remove ministers. The president will make his own assessment, MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe told The Citizen ahead of Sunday night s anticipated Cabinet reshuffle. Then, based on his own assessment, he will decide on whether to reshuffle his Cabinet. We are not privy to that process. Maphatsoe s comment followed rife speculation that Zuma had been planning a reshuffle for months, and that SA Communist Party ministers would be sacked, among others on the wrong side of Zuma. Two ANC structures (the ANC Women s League and ANC Youth League) have called on Zuma to axe Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. The controversial promotion of former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe as an ANC MP gave credence to talks that he would be Gordhan s replacement. Molefe had resigned from the parastatal s top seat following the release of the report into state capture by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. But the news of Molefe s appointment as ANC MP had left a bitter taste. AngloGold Ashanti chairperson and Save South Africa convenor Sipho Pityana on Monday said the appointment was proof that Zuma &#8220;rewarded corruption&#8221;. Soon, you may have unfettered access to the public purse, and you and your handlers may sign off on the trillion-rand nuclear energy deal, with all its kickbacks, said Pityana. I fear you may divert more public money into your pockets from tenders, and use parastatals as your personal piggy banks. Pityana urged Molefe to reconsider his position. You must be wary that Zuma has shown us in the manner he has sacrificed many gullible leaders that there s no honour among thieves, Pityana said. Be sure that he ll sacrifice you too when the moment comes. Pityana said Molefe had been deployed with an intention to carry out the dirty work . Zuma s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, could not be reached for comment. Molefe s appointment as MP proof that Zuma rewards corruption Pityana For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.