Just Sensual proved she is one of the best fillies in the country with a cosy win in the Grade 3 Vasco Prix du Cap over 1400m at Kenilworth on Saturday. Ridden by Anton Marcus, the daughter of Dynasty was always well placed from her good draw, and was taken into the lead with 300m to run. She was pressed all the way to the line by a gutsy Captain&#8217;s Flame but Just Sensual always seemed to have her measure and was still 0.40 lengths clear at the finish. Gimme Six was another 1.25 lengths back in third with A Time To Dream in fourth. The expected duel between 2016 Fillies Guineas winner Just Sensual and 2015 champion Silver Mountain never materialised. The Candice-Bass Robinson runner made her move halfway up the straight and looked dangerous for a couple of strides but quickly faded from a threatening position to finish fifth, beaten 3.90 lengths. Just Sensual went off at 1-1 with Silver Mountain second favourite at 3-1. Marcus had said earlier he felt Silver Mountain would be the one to beat. &#8220;I know a lot of people made excuses for Just Sensual&#8217;s poor run in the Investec Derbybut however you looked at it, that was very disappointing. &#8220;I have to take my hat off to Joey Ramsden and his team because she was very well today.&#8221; Just Sensual will now be put away and will later be going up to KwaZulu-Natal for the winter season. It proved to be a good day for Marcus who also won Race 2 on Made In Hollywood and Race 5 on Brutal Force. Marcus has had some armchair rides in his career but few could have been easier than Made In Hollywood. The daughter of Querari went off at 12-10 but halfway up the straight of this 1200m race it was clear this filly had the race wrapped up. Some 200m from home Marcus was clear and looking around for the opposition. She crossed the line 6.25 lengths ahead of Queen Moira with well supported first-timer Estimaal another 0.75 lengths back in third. &#8220;She gave me a very good feel,&#8221; commented Marcus after the race. Jockey Greg Cheyne escaped serious injury in Race 7, the Non- Black Type Cape Mile when his mount, Nebula, appeared to clip the heels of Milton, stumbled and Cheyne came down. The field was right up against the outside rail and fortunately Cheyne did not the rail when he came off. Both he and his mount appeared to be a little shaken, but okay.