Ambitiouz Entertainment has finally responded to the allegations made by its former artists on social media last week. In a statement, the label says though it is aware of the allegations, it cannot provide full information on the drama, as the matter is before the courts. However, it confirmed that rappers Fifi Cooper, B3nchMarQ, A-Reece and Flame were no longer part of the stable. Read the full statement below: This is the official statement from Ambitiouz Entertainment Management. Ambitiouz Entertainment is aware of all allegations made between management and artists; Fifi Cooper, B3nchMarQ, A-Reece and Flame; with concerns expressed on various social media platforms and music released outside of the label. We can officially confirm that the above-mentioned artists are no longer under the management of our label. The matter is before the courts, permitting us to provide limited information to the public at this stage. We will continue to update the public regarding the progress of this matter. Ambitiouz Entertainment is committed to contributing significantly to the growth and development of emerging talent and will continue to do so. We would also like to send apologies to the fans of the A-Team and will continue to make music the first priority to our loyal supporters. &#8220;Can we ask that all queries be directed to the Ambitiouz Entertainment PR Team. Thank you for your continued support. Evening Family. Herewith an official statement from Ambitiouz Entertainment. Please contact pr@ambitiouz.co.za for more info #AE pic.twitter.com/KRxesVw9LE &mdash; Ambitiouz Ent (@Ambitiouz_Ent) February 20, 2017 The record label made headlines last week after A-Reece took to Twitter to share with his fans that he was leaving. To whom this may concern the most: The fans. I would like to say that I m no longer a part of @AmbitiouzEnt as of now moving forward, he wrote. Fifi Cooper also took to Instagram to tell her fans she was leaving the stable. Yoh listen, note that I am no longer an @ambitiouz_entertainment artist. It s been good but all good things come to an end. Fifi Nation, still yours the whole time. . . I ve decided to push Fifi Cooper under fificooper s Record Label M Cooper Records. I ve learned I m ready and it s TIME!!!! Since then, in a series of tweets, the label has criticised B3nchmarq, saying he had been a financial loss after many failed attempts to push his music. Also read: I m happier than ever at Ambitiouz, says Emtee 