Eskom confirmed on Tuesday it would release a redacted version of the long withheld Denton report to anybody who files an application through the Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA). However, the Democratic Alliance, one of four entities that have already submitted a PAIA application, said it would demand the full report, which was originally commissioned to investigate why there was a need to resume loadshedding. The announcement earlier today by Eskom board chairperson Dr Ben Ngubane that only a cleansed version of the Denton Report will be made public, is rejected with the contempt it deserves, DA public enterprises spokesperson Natasha Mazzone said. This is nothing more than a smoke-screen to continue to hide valuable information from the public Indeed, the sanitised report will only contain vague generalisations that would be unusable in holding those in the wrong accountable. Mazzone challenged Ngubane to release the full report without delay, to prove that the utility had nothing to hide. Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe said the company had been advised by its lawyers to remove the names of people who were questioned during the investigation, and who had not yet been informed that they have been mentioned in the document. READ MORE: Eskom denies it has something to hide in Dentons report The people who have not been contacted by the board have been blocked out, as we have been advised by our legal advisers that it could have legal implications for Eskom if there names are there and they have not been informed about it. He added that this version would be available to anybody who wants it . Once you get the PAIA approval Eskom will send it to you almost immediately. We are setting up an extra desk which is just dealing with that. Phasiwe said the names that remained in the redacted version were those of four senior officials who were investigated and cleared at the time. They are Matshela Koko, the current acting CEO, then finance director Tsholofelo Molefe, then group executive for group capital Dan Marokane and former CEO Tshediso Matona. The four were placed on suspension by Eskom s former chairperson Zola Tsotsi in March 2015 when he announced an inquiry into the utility. The inquiry by the prominent law firm reportedly cost R27 million. Koko returned to Eskom but the other three executives resigned. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.