A two-day debate on President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address (Sona) ended on a sour note on Wednesday with Deputy Minister in the Presidency comparing an opposition party MP to someone at a children s party with cone-heads and a jumping castle . This was just one example of the insults which characterised much of the politically charged debate. After last week s chaotic Sona which saw an African National Congress (ANC) premier drop the F-bomb, and Tuesday s debate which saw DA MP Phumzille van Damme called a straatmeid (street girl), MPs continued to needle one another on Wednesday. The word sellout often shouted by ANC MPs at their counterparts in opposition benches, was later used used against the ruling party with no consensus on which party the catchphrase really applied to. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Gordhan denies looming war with Dlamini over grant crisis Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane and another of the party s black MPs, Solly Malatsi, were called sellouts as they spoke. The opposition party s deputy chief whip Mike Waters later defended them, saying the ANC sold out 94 psychiatric patients who died of of starvation and dehydration after being transferred from Life Esidimeni to unlicenced NGO s in the Gauteng province. Despite a plea by Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula against the debate being turned into a shouting match , reminding MPs they had a responsibility to exercise high levels of political maturity , MPs refused to behave. ANC MPs were compelled to jump to Zuma s defence several times, after he was accused of everything from crookery to incompetence. Agang-SA MP Andries Plouamma at one point asked ANC MPs to look at Zuma, asking: Is he not a symbol of crookery, is he not a symbol of dishonesty, is he not diminishing the dignity of this house ? Even a whole bucket of perfume won t clean him from his stench of corruption. He was ordered to withdraw his last statement, with United Democratic Movement MP Mncedisi Filtane interjecting with this advice: I want to appeal to honourable Plouamma not to hit the ANC so hard, they can t take the pain. ANC MP Sahlulele Luzipo was forced to take his colleagues from both sides of the house to church, using the podium as a pulpit, and delivering a sermon from the bible to the parliamentary flock. He spoke mostly in Xhosa, but turned to a smiling Maimane, himself a preacher, and said: Part of the duty that we have is to preach peace, it s not to stand as a leader on a platform and pump your members to to the extent that they reject the notion of peace and that s exactly what is the gist of the state of the nation address, it talks about united South Africa that seeks to redress the imbalances of the past. Luzipho was not finished, turning to his own party and using an old African Idiom, hinting that infighting was hurting the party and benefiting opposition parties. When brothers fight to death a stranger inherits the property. President Jacob Zuma replies to the debate on Thursday afternoon, and perhaps like last year, would appeal to Parliament s presiding officers for protection to stop the insults from coming his way. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.