The National Horseracing Author ity confirms that at an Inquiry held at its Durban office on 30 Jan uary 2017 Trainer L G Denysschen was charged with the following: A contravention of Rule 73.2.4 in that he was the trainer of PURE VALOR, from which a urine specimen was taken after it had participated in and won the 4th Race at Greyville Racecourse on 21 September 2016, disclosed upon analysis the presence of Caf feine, a prohibited substance in terms of the Rules of The National Horseracing Authority. A contravention of Rule 73.2.4 in that he was the trainer of FOR EVER, from which a plas ma specimen was taken after it had participated in and won the 8th Race at Greyville Racecourse on 23 September 2016, disclosed upon analysis the presence of Caf feine, a prohibited substance in terms of the Rules of The National Horseracing Authority. A contravention of Rule 73.2.4 in that he was the trainer of FOR EVER, from which a urine specimen was taken after it had participated in and won the 7th Race at Greyville Racecourse on 14 October 2016, disclosed upon analysis the presence of Caf feine, a prohibited substance in terms of the Rules of The National Horseracing Authority. A contravention of Rule 73.2.3 in that he was the trainer of FASHION FUSION, from which a blood specimen was taken from the horse prior to the run ning of the 5th Race at Greyville Racecourse on 19 October 2016, disclosed upon analysis the pres ence of Caffeine, a prohibited sub stance in terms of the Rules of The National Horseracing Authority. A contravention of Rule 73.2.4 in that he was the trainer of PRINCIPATE from which a urine specimen was taken after it had participated in and won the 8th Race at Greyville Racecourse on 28 October 2016, disclosed upon analysis the presence of Caf feine, a prohibited substance in terms of the Rules of The National Horseracing Authority. Mr Denysschen pleaded not guilty but was found guilty of the above charges. In considering a sentence, the Inquiry Board took into account the evidence advanced, both in mitigation and aggravation of sen tence and in particular:- the fact that Mr Denysschen had five separate findings in re spect of a prohibited substance namely, Caffeine, within a period of five weeks. this is a second offence for the same prohibited substance. the prohibited substance Caaffeine is a performance en hancing drug. the racing public is directly prejudiced by this type of conduct and The NHA is obliged to protect racing in South Africa. Five sepa rate findings in respect of pro hibited substance has a severely negative impact on the image of racing. The Inquiry Board imposed a fine of R180,000. In terms of Rule 72.3.2, each horse, namely PURE VALOR, FOR EVER, FASHION FU SION and PRINCIPATE, is disqual ified from the abovementioned races they participated in and in respect of which the provisions of Rule 67.7.8 shall apply. NHA