A 51-year-old Randfontein sexual predator was on Wednesday found guilty of raping and indecently assaulting his two stepdaughters. Johannesburg High Court Judge Cassim Moosa said he did not doubt the evidence of the two sisters. Earlier, Judge Moosa read through the charges the man faced, which included indecent assault and rape. He cannot be named to protect the identity of his stepdaughters. Moosa said the accused had pleaded not guilty to all of the charges against him. During the trial the state called seven witnesses, one of whom was the 51-year-old s stepdaughter, who he began raping when she was 11-years-old. Now 18-years-old, the accounting student told the court that she did not like her stepfather even though he provided financially for the family and made sure that their basic needs were met. She said she recalled the first incident after the birth of her half-brother while her mother was at work. The 51-year-old penetrated her with his finger. She testified that at the time she did not report the matter, as she did not know that what was happening was wrong, and thought it happened to everyone. On another occasion, her stepfather told her to remove her clothing while he was driving, and he penetrated her with his fingers while she sat next to him in the front passenger seat. She later told the court that her stepfather began raping her on a regular basis when she was in Grade 8. She told her school psychologist that she could not report the matter because he had told her that her family would be unhappy and in danger if she told the police. The teenager only reported the matter after she found out that he was sexually assaulting her sister as well. She told the court that she tried taking her life by hanging herself and overdosing on medication after he was arrested but was unsuccessful. Moosa said the young woman s evidence made it clear that she had never given her stepfather permission to touch her. The 18-year-old had also told the court that she erased some incidents from her memory, as they gave her nightmares. She also testified that she had felt ashamed. A medical doctor confirmed that he had examined the 18-year-old and found evidence of penetration. The doctor said that the 17-year-old sister who was 7-years-old when the stepfather began to sexually assault her, had also sustained vaginal trauma and the injuries showed clearly that she had also been penetrated on various occasions. The younger sister told the court that on one occasion her stepfather sexually assaulted her while she was bathing and said he was showing her how to bathe herself. He started raping her when she was in Grade 6. The 17-year-old told the court that she wished to disappear from the earth and that she was angry at her stepfather but understood that he was a man and had made a mistake. The mother of the two girls said her husband s aunt asked her to withdraw the charges against him. She confirmed that she had witnessed her husband putting his hand under the 18-year-old s underwear but could not confront him about it. She said when she finally confronted him, he denied it. She wrote a letter requesting him to stop assaulting her children, but he denied the allegations. Following his arrest, his family members said the children were lying. Judge Moosa also recounted the evidence of his biological daughter, who told the court that she was aware that he was strict about the academics of his stepdaughters. The accused s mother testified that her son was innocent. She told the court that she looked after the sisters in the afternoons and was adamant the assaults had not happened. The judge extended the accused s bail. Sentencing proceedings were expected to start on Thursday. &#8211; African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.