Have you ever thought why you develop an allergic reaction, headache, cough, skin eruption or depression?You need to check the type of sugar you have been taking recently. Some sugars especially additives and sweeteners are linked to the above side effects because they are manufactured with several chemicals added to them.Jamiru Mpiima, a nutritionist at Victoria University Wellness Centre, says sugar is a mixture of glucose and fructose. These simple sugars are both contained in various amounts in different foods. Sugar exists in many forms besides just the crystalloid sugar we can pick up at the grocery store.There are effects of sugar in all of its forms and currently people are consuming more sugar than ever before.According to reports published by the World Health Organisation and the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition, there is need for a reduction in sugars intake to 5 per cent of our energy intake. This is the equivalent of seven teaspoons of sugar per day for an adult. There is a difference between the sugar we take and the sugar in the blood. The food we eat contains carbohydrates, which are in turn converted into glucose that moves into the blood (called blood sugar) and must be kept at a level of 50 to 180mg/dl of blood, says Mpiima.He adds that, The body cells burn the blood sugar into energy but when the sugar is in excess, there is partial breakdown of the glucose which is in turn stored as fats. Accumulation over time may lead to failure by the heart to convert the glucose into energy and more fats are stored in the long run. This is a high risk factor to diabetes and hypertension. According to Dr Ismail Tamale, a nutritionist at Taimex Uganda, added sugars contain a bunch of calories with no essential nutrients.There are no proteins, essential fats, vitamins or minerals in the processed sugar. He advises that one should reduce the intake of artificial sweeteners.Good and bad sugarsThere are natural sugars that exist in fruits and foods and sugar additives. The natural sugar additives include honey, maple syrup and stevia.There are artificial sugar additives that are manufactured and prepared in the laboratory with added chemicals like saccharin, aspartame. The cane beet sugars include refined sugars, molasses and jaggery. The best kinds of sugars are those that are naturally found in foods and fruits.Tamale says, Honey is about 53 per cent fructose, but is completely natural in its raw form and has many health benefits when used in moderation, including as many antioxidants as spinach.The artificial sweeteners are added to baked goods, soft drinks, powdered drinks, jams, jellies, dairy products and chewing gum. There are several indicators that tell one is taking too much bad sugars according to Dr Tamale and they manifest when they get unexplained weight gain, your brain fails to concentrate especially after a meal, skin eruptions, cough even when you have no infection as well as sugar cravings.He says, Also the taste buds are killed that a person wants to add as much sugar as they can even where there is enough. 