There are only seven races on Tuesday s Kenilworth card and the fields are small. However, they are quite competitive so the exotics might still result in big payouts. The one Pick 6 and Jackpot banker on the card comes in Race 6, a MR 80 Handicap over 1000m, when Vaughan Marshall saddles Starflash. This three-year-old gelding has some excellent form and has run against a lot stronger opposition than he will meet in this event. Two runs back he raced in a Graduation Plate over this course and distance and finished fifth, 7.15 lengths behind Attenborough. Shortly after that run, which was on 23 November, Starflash was gelded. His comeback run was in the rich $500,000 CTS 1200 (Non-Black Type) on Sun Met Day and he finished sixth, 5.35 lengths behind Live Life. Attenborough was also in that race and finished third. Once again they met at level terms but time Attenborough was just 2.85 lengths ahead of him so he showed considerable improvement. He had some decent horses behind including 15-10 favourite Sergeant Hardy. Starflash is undoubtedly better over 1000m and has also built up a good rapport with jockey MJ Byleveld, who rides him again. Byleveld has ridden him seven times and has been aboard for both his victories. He has also placed on three other occasions. The biggest opposition could come from Ovar, who has apprentice Craig Bantam in the irons and will claim 4kg. The five-year-old son of Var has been extremely consistent, having run 16 times for three wins and 10 places. The other decent bet on the card comes in Race 1, where Greg Ennion sends out Zodiac Jack in a Juvenile Plate over 1000m. He needed the experience badly on debut when 5.80 lengths behind Barrack Street over 800m. He learned his trade well because in his second start the son of Just As Well was always out front and raced away from the field to beat Ancestry by 5.25 lengths. Richard Fourie takes the ride again and they look hard to beat. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.