Following numerous articles that made headlines last year about the possible ban on Brazilian treatments in the Muslim community, a hair treatment research and manufacturing company made it their mission to get the product tested, reports the Northglen News. In keeping with their goal to ensure their products are compliant with Islamic laws, Inoar Professional initiated tests that were conducted using their Brazilian Keratin Treatments. According to the company, the tests proved that water can penetrate the cuticle with the Inoar products. Speaking about the reason behind the research, the company s Hendrien Kruger, said the South African National Halaal Authority (SANHA ) contacted them to enquire if their products were Halaal. They then expressed their concern to Inoar Brazil, the brand s head office. However, a study conducted by CDMF/ KATL IA Advanced Center for Hair Diagnosis revealed that Inoar Professional still allows water to penetrate through the hair s cuticle. ALSO READ: KNP expert says rain does not mean drought is over What this means is that Muslim women who undergo Inoar Professional Brazilian Keratin Treatments can feel rest assured that the procedure is Halaal and doesn t impinge on religious cleansing or participation in worship. The report revealed that the flow of water into untreated hair strands [known as virgin hair] versus strands straightened with glyoxylic acid [present in our Brazilian Keratin Treatments], said Kruger. The report also confirmed that due to Inoar Professional only using vegetable-based ingredients in their formulations, the brand has just been listed with PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). Muslim women have expressed their relief, knowing that the treatment does not go against their religious beliefs. Ameera Sheik said: If the products are safe and alcohol free and doesn t include any animal extracts, I would definitely use it. Glad to know the Inoar Professional products only includes vegetable-based ingredients. It s pleasing to know that businesses would go the extra mile to ensure religious rights are valued and respected. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.