Amidst a thrilling match between African Talent FC and Migo Squad FC at the Barafu playground at Magomeni Makuti, a group of five young men seated on the grounds were involved in a deep discussion, I was one of them.Ignoring the lurid cheers from the spectators, the men who were between the ages of 20 and 30, were discussing about a less talked about sexual issue that affects many Tanzanian men of their age.One of the men involved in the discussion shared his experience, When I first had sex with my girlfriend, I did not enjoy it, the problem of arriving early kept on recurring to the extent that I am now afraid to approach a girl since I know at the end, I would be placing myself in an embarrassing position, yet again. The problem of premature ejaculation exists among many men whereas others have even given up having any intimate relationships with their mates, while others found solace in breaking up the relationship leading to mental health risks. Unfortunately, the conversation among the young men revealed one aspect that it is very uncommon for men who face this problem to seek medical attention or advice.The use of wrong medicationMany young men engage in the use of over-the-counter pills and drugs, which they buy from pharmacies or applying traditional herbs after being instructed that it could help them last longer during the intercourse by some traditional practitioners. But is premature ejaculation really a problem that requires pills?23-year-old Japheth Oscar*, is one among the people who has been experiencing the problem since he had sex for the first time, about three years ago. The problem has been persistent till date. Initially, I failed to realise what I was suffering from. Every time I had sex, it would probably take me one to two minutes to arrive, says the resident of Magomeni Mapipa.Oscar further narrates that he one day shared his sexual problem with one of his friends and that he was advised and introduced to a number of pills, including vega, viagra and eracto, that his friend was using since he was also suffering from the same problem.He says, I made a lot of use of these pills to the extent that they were weak to help me solve the problem anymore. You know, for example, you may start taking a 50 mg of viagra pill, but once it becomes a habit, you increase the dosage and eventually it stops working. Oscar broke off the relationship with his girlfriend due to low sex drive. But I would rather let her go than subject myself into the use of drugs, which I know for sure will have negative side effects in my life, says Oscar while staying optimistic that the problem will one day go.Just like Oscar, there are many young Tanzanians who opt for over-the-counter drugs as their solution to any sexual problem.While admitting that there is no prospective and comparative study undertaken in Tanzania about how many young men suffer from premature ejaculation, Dr Cassian Nyandindi, a psychiatrist based at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) says that the problem is often misunderstood and confused among many people in the society.He tells Your Health, Many people do not know what premature ejaculation is and this leads them to be confused and think that they might be faced by the problem particularly after having watched pornography and comparing it with his or her sexual capacity without thinking that the actors in the porn-film have been incapacitated with drugs. The Urology Care Foundation, the official foundation of the American Urology Association, explains ejaculation as the release of semen from the body while premature ejaculation (PE) is when ejaculation happens sooner than a man or his partner would like during sex. Occasional PE is also known as rapid ejaculation, premature climax or early ejaculation.According to the foundation, PE might not be a cause for worry, however, it can be frustrating if it makes sex less enjoyable and impacts relationships. In the United States about 1 in 3 men aged between 18 to 59 years have problems with PE. The problem is often thought to be psychological, but biology may also play a role, reads the part of the post in Urology Health s website.The problem is considered a tabooHamid Hemed*, 26, says although he is not aware whether the problem will end one day or not, despite the traditional herbs he is using now.When asked if he ever attended a hospital for medical advice, Hemed says that he attended once but he was told that the problem has no cure and that s why he turned to traditional herbs.Just like Hemed, Godwin Henry*, 30, was also told by the doctors that the problem of early ejaculation that he is suffering from has no cure. But they introduced him to pills, which he started using them. He says, I am alright, I ve the problem, yes, but I have been using the prescribed pills since I visited the hospital the first time with the issue. They affect me, yes, but I cannot just stay without a girl. When asked if his girlfriend knows about the problem, Henry quickly responded, No, why should she? I cannot tell her since that will reveal my weakness and it will affect the relationship. Why does it occur?Premature ejaculation has long been considered to be a result of a psychological or learned condition. However over the years, other factors such as thyroid diseases, prostatitis, and varicocele have now been considered as playing a role in the pathogenesis of PE. This is an important area to investigate as premature ejaculation is one of the most common male sexual dysfunctions men experience ranking up there with erectile dysfunction, delayed ejaculation and low libido, says Dr David Samadi, the Chairman of Urology, Chief of Robotic Surgery at Lenox Hill Hospital in an interview with the PR web. Premature ejaculation is when a man is not able to control ejaculation either shortly before or shortly after sexual penetration and is estimated to affect up to 30 per cent of all men. This can result in unsatisfactory sex for both partners as a man will ejaculate too quickly leading to a great deal of anxiety and frustration for men when this happens, Dr Samadi exclaimed.A recent prospective, comparative study published in the International Journal of Impotence Research , has found that men with PE had higher blood glucose levels than the men without PE along with 59 per cent of the men with PE had systolic blood pressures. In addition, men with PE had higher waist circumferences of 102 cm.Some of the reasons these factors may attribute to PE, according to the study, could be, for example, diabetes or obesity.Commenting about the study cited above, Dr Samadi says, Over the years, it has been a known relationship between obesity, metabolic syndrome and erectile dysfunction, states Dr Samadi adding, This study wanted to analyse what association there might be between premature ejaculation and metabolic syndrome since there are so many men who have metabolic syndrome and who may be having difficulty with premature ejaculation and not understanding why it is happening. The natural way to solve the problem of premature ejaculationIn the effort to fight the problem among many men, various methods have been recommended by the specialists, one among them is physical exercise .Dr Mashili Fredrick, Exercise and Endocrine Physiologist based in Dar es Salaam who is of opinion that both normal and special exercises can help men curb the problem of premature ejaculation and enjoy sex as others.He says, Studies have indicated that if a person with the problem will engage in daily routine of exercises, he will be able to solve the problem of premature ejaculation. I have met many patients with the problem and I counseled them to do exercise and the feedback has been positive. Dr Fredrick further tells Your Health that although many people with the problem are worried and hesitant to open up, some of those who do it has helped them so much since. Exercise improves the control of a human body and enhance the blood circulation, something whose absence in the body may lead to the problem of rapid ejaculation among many, Dr Fredirick urges.Work it out as a coupleDr Josephine Tesha, an independent Consultant and an Expert in Psychology and Relationships based in Dar es Salaam, says that she receives many patients with premature ejaculation problems, however, they don t specifically come for the problem.Dr Tesha advices the female partner to be supportive of her mate s problem. What I advise people very often is that the female partner needs to understand the situation of her partner and be supportive, she says.Dr Tesha adds that as far as she understands, premature ejaculation is a psychological disorder, which does not require any kind of treatment and any one can come across that problem once or more throughout their lifetime due to depression, stress or anxiety.When asked about whether Viagra can cure the problem, Dr Tesha says that, It cannot, it would rather enlarge the problem. I always don t recommend my patients to use the pill since it is one among the causes of the problem. (*not their real names)