Employees of Lauds Foundry Equipment in Wadeville, East Rand were subjected to a nightmarish time on Wednesday when the company was invaded by 15 men, Germiston News reports. The robbery left one man dead and employees traumatised. Elsburg police communications officer Consablet Daphney Phooko told the GCN that at about 6.50am, 15 men, speaking Shona, entered the business in Kabeljou Road, in Wadeville, driving a white Chevrolet utility bakkie with a canopy. Ten men were armed with firearms and four of them pointed their firearms at the employees and forced them to open the door so that they could gain entry to the building, said Phooko. After entry was gained all the employees present at that stage were tied up with shoelaces and those who arrived later also had firearms pointed at them and were taken to where the others were being kept tied up. When the last employee arrived at the business premises, the suspects approached him and spoke to him.However, it is alleged the employee, a 75-year-old man, who spoke Portuguese, and the criminals misunderstood each other due to the language barrier.&#8221; One of the suspects shot the man once in the upper body, fatally wounding him. READ MORE: Bullets fly and shoppers run for cover in Sosha armed robbery The suspects then allegedly forced one of the security officers to show them how to operate the forklift, which they used to load drums onto an eight-ton truck. More than 50, 250kg drums of nickel (a precious metal) were taken. Computers and employees cellphones were also taken by the suspects, said Phooko. The nickel, worth more than R6-million, was loaded onto an eight-ton truck with an unknown registration number.The suspects then fled the scene in the Chevrolet utility bakkie and the truck. Paramedics from Netcare 911 responded to the scene. When Netcare 911 paramedics arrived on scene, they found that the man had been fatally shot, said Athlenda Mathe, media liaison officer for Netcare 911. He was declared dead on scene by Netcare 911 paramedics. Paramedics also assessed at least 23 employees, but could find no visible injuries. Netcare 911 also deployed trauma counsellors to the scene. The Elsburg police are investigating cases of murder and business robbery. No arrests have been made at this stage. Anyone with information leading to the arrest of the suspects can contact the Elsburg police on 011 827-2060. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.