Suspended municipal manager Sindile Tantsi has had his assets valued at R238 000 seized by the Asset Forfeiture Unit in the Eastern Cape. A preservation order was granted following allegations that Tantsi had received kickbacks from a businessman who had won a tender to supply black plastic bags to the Mnquma Municipality in Butterworth. NPA spokesperson Tsepo Ndwalaza said on Tuesday that the preservation order was implemented on Tuesday, and Tantsi s seized assets included an automatic AMG Mercedes Benz and carport at Tantsi s home in Chibini Village Administrative Area of Ntabankulu. Tantsi and his co-accused, businessman Sive Nombembe, were arrested earlier this month following an investigation by the Joint Anti-Corruption Task Team of the Hawks. The allegations in the preservation papers are that Mr Tantsi s arrest relates to a R10-million tender Mnquma issued two years ago. The preservation is against the subsequent kickbacks, the Benz and the carport as proceeds of corruption. Mr Tantsi received the kickbacks from Mr Nombembe, the Butterworth businessman whose company Big Event Boy (Pty) Ltd won the tender to supply the Municipality with black plastic bags, said Ndwalaza. According to the State, in order to make certain the tender was not cancelled, Nombembe allegedly bought the Mercedes Benz and delivered it to the suspended municipal manager, but following his arrest the vehicle was seized. In addition, the businessman also allegedly made payment to a construction company in Kokstad for the construction of the carport at Tantsi s home. These are deemed as gratification in the Corruption Act and are liable to forfeiture to the State, Mr Tantsi and Mr Nombembe will be served with the preservation order and be given an opportunity to oppose the granting of a forfeiture order against the kickbacks. Should they fail the kickback will be forfeited to the State and the proceeds thereof be used to bolster law enforcement, Ndwalaza added. Both men will be back in court on March 27. &#8211; African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.