We caught up with the lyricist to find out what to expect from his performance at NickFest 2017. He also shared his craziest experience with his fans and more. First of all, congratulations on being one of the headlining acts at this year s NickFest, what does being part of an event of this magnitude mean to you? It s an honour to be part of such an extraordinary event where parents and kids come together and can have fun as a family in this era that is something that should be cherished. Speaking of NickFest, what are some of your favourite, Nickelodeon cartoons when you were younger? Some of my favourite Nickelodeon cartoons definitely have to be The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Spongebob Square Pants. You re quite good at what you do and that makes it difficult to fault your music. Is there any aspect of your game that you feel you still need to improve on? Thank you. I always believe that no matter how good you are at anything, you should always strive to better that; there is always room for improvement and your best can always be bettered. People all over the country are showing you a lot of love. How do you feel about that and what is your craziest experience with a fan? I really appreciate all the love and support, it is exceptionally humbling, and gets a little crazy sometimes. I was once booked for a performance at a high school event in Pretoria and right after the event we took a few pictures, but I could unfortunately not take pictures with everyone there. As we drove off, in the middle of the road were about 20 of the scholars from that school on their knees blocking the road just to get a picture. As crazy as it seemed, it humbled me and made me realize just how real the love is. You re always booked, meaning you perform quite a lot. How are you ensuring that you re bringing a whole new experience to the crowd every time you step on stage? Every crowd I perform for is different, and that sets the tone for my performance. The crowd creates the ambience. Final words? Don t just chase your dreams, live it; if you can perceive it, you can definitely achieve it. Brought to you by People Magazine For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.