Controversial former SABC executive Hlaudi Motsoeneng reportedly wants to serve the country and add value through public service. This is despite a myriad corruption scandals and his alleged dictatorial leadership style. SABC reports that during address to North West ANC leaders on Thursday night, Motsoeneng said he wanted to make sure even white people have a place in South Africa . What comes to my mind is land &#8230; What comes to my mind is education because we need to make sure after the university there is future for young people they employed by SOEs they employed by private sector, even government, he said. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela s 2014 report found Motsoeneng had been dishonest and had misrepresented his matric qualifications, had irregulary increased his own salary, purged the broadcaster of senior staff and abused his powers. But he clearly still wants a job in public office. I want to serve South Africans not political parties. I want to serve the people of South Africa. I want to add value. I want to make sure that people that are black have jobs. I want to make sure even white people they have a place in South Africa, he said. ALSO READ: Zuma s son takes swipe at Gordhan Jonas and De Klerk in scathing attack Motsoeneng was suspended by the public broadcaster in December 2016 following a high court ruling that his appointment was unlawful. Western Cape High Court on Wednesday heard an application by the SABC to appeal its December ruling that Hlaudi Motsoeneng s appointment as group executive of corporate affairs at the public broadcaster was unlawful. Judge Owen Rogers and Judge Andre le Grange ordered his immediate suspension in December last year and said he may not hold any position at the public broadcaster unless the public protector s report was set aside or fresh disciplinary hearings exonerated him from wrongdoing. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.