Mara. When one talks about female genital mutilation (FGM) in the country, many think of this region. Perhaps, some people think that it is the only region in the country where the malpractice is dominant.Commemorating the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation, today, perhaps we should ask ourselves why the practice is still prevalent in the region and what can be done about it. The theme this year is, Building a solid and interactive bridge between Africa and the world to accelerate ending FGM by 2030 .According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the mutilation comprises all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injuries to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons.Health experts argue that FGM has no health benefits, and it harms girls and women in many ways. The removal and damage of healthy and normal female genital tissue interferes with the natural functions of girls and women s bodies. Generally speaking, risks multiply with increasing severity of the procedure.The practice is mostly carried out by traditional circumcisers, who often play other central roles in communities. Data from Unicef reveal that at least 200 million girls and women have been cut in 30 countries.A psychologist based in Tarime Urban District, Mr Hosea Merama, said communities in Mara do not hide the fact they have carried on with the practice unlike other communities that have resorted to doing it discreetly. Here in Mara Region FGM is still widely practised as it is considered an important cultural event for girls , he said.In Mara, relatives, friends and neighbours are invited to participate in celebration to mark the ritual after a girls has undergone FGM, and the event usually takes place after every three years.Marwa Mahende 82, a clan elder, at Mugumu in Serengeti District says FGM should be made optional. He argues that over the last few years, the number of incidents have reduced.He went on to say that the cut used to be so much deeper than it is today adding that clan elders and parents teamed up to negotiate for the reduction on size and depth of the cut as a mark of the passage to womanhood.At Sirari ward, Tarime Urban District which borders Kenya, Ms Mbusiro Getari 68, said even though she did not experience any health complications when she underwent the cut she would like to see the practice stopped.Tarime/Rorya special zone Police commander Andrew Satta, says it has been very challenging to curb FGM especially in communities close to the border at Sirari. For example during the last Christmas holidays some parents took their daughters across the border to undergo FGM, he said. The Police Commander narrated how back home other parents disguised their daughters as boys and made them follow the boys who were going to be circumcised while the girls would be cut .An activist in Musoma town Ms Fatuma Marios, says the government should intensively probe FGM countrywide. Mara regional police boss, Ramadhan Ng hazi says, a number of communities do not want to adhere to the government s directives and are hence becoming a nuisance. The ban on FGM is not restricted to Mara Region alone it affects the whole country but the residents here think they have been singled out, the RPC said.He called for more sensitisation on the harmful practice from stakeholders.According to the Mara Region Medical Officer Nila Jackson the ,long-term consequences include complications during childbirth, anemia resulting from the high loss of blood immediately after the procedure. The formation of cysts and abscesses, keloid scars, damage to the urethra resulting in the inability to control urine, painful sexual intercourse, sexual dysfunction, hypersensitivity of the genital area and increased risk of HIV/Aids are other side effects.The doctor added that FGM increases the number of cases of early marriage mounting school drop-outs. There is no medical benefits of the cut under the guise marking a natural process of growing up. Alternatively, communities could come up with other ways use of recognising changes in their daughters other than cutting them, she said.In a related development early this year, over 80 girls who had fled their homes running away from FGM ceremonies were stranded at a camp set up by the Association for the Termination of Female Genital Mutilation (ATFGM).The coordinator Valerian Mgani said that the girls were from Usuni, Mwema and Komaswa wards in Tarime. She told The Citizen that the camp had run out of food but the parents had refused to pick up their daughters saying they had dodged the ritual.According to the ATFGM 42, girls the previous year faced a similar situation but the go vernment and other stakeholders found boarding schools for the girls.One or more types of FGM are practised in more than 29 African countries and by ethnic groups in the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula and along the Persian Gulf.