Following the ceasefire on Saturday, 28 January 2017, between the various groups Gift of the Givers task team has engaged many role players seeking clarification and assistance in finding Shiraaz. Imtiaz Sooliman Chairman and Founder of Gift of the Givers said: &#8220;In the last 48 hours all kinds of people from all types of groups bearing a range of titles including NGO director, medical director, security representative, investigation representative, have either visited Gift of the Givers Ar Rahma Hospital or engaged us in various locations. The message is the same: &#8220;There was no reason for anyone to take Shiraaz.&#8221; Shiraaz Mohamed. Image via Facebook. Sooliman said: &#8220; We have received word that there will be a rounding up of suspects, arrests, investigations and raids into different areas in an attempt to find Shiraaz. This process has already commenced. Various prisons will be visited in the days ahead to ascertain if Shiraaz has been wrongfully detained. The people of Syria have come out very strongly against the captors, saying clearly &#8216;not in our name&#8217;. A big protest and media event is being planned for tomorrow by the people.&#8221; READ MORE: Kinappers &#8216;wanted to question Mohamed over misunderstanding&#8217; Sooliman added that: &#8220;The speculation from all engaged is that whoever took Shiraaz made a mistake, but to correct that mistake in the light of the civilian outrage is going to be very difficult. The captors are going to face severe repercussions unless they can release Shiraaz quietly without being identified.&#8221; To assist this process, Gift of the Givers has affixed large posters at hospital that treats 13 000 patients per month. Currently, the hospital is packed to capacity. The message is conciliatory, in essence asking for Shiraaz to be released in a safe place and in return we will look the other way taking no further action. Shiraaz approached Gift of the Givers to facilitate his entry into Syria. As a renowned freelance photojournalist he wanted to document the suffering of the Syrian people by making his pictures available to the various agencies that he files for internationally. Shiraaz, as a courtesy to Gift of the Givers, would make available high quality pictures relevant to our various projects inside Syria. Shiraaz was abducted on 10 January on the way to the Turkish border; no group has claimed responsibility and no demands have been made. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.