For centuries people have been searching for foods and magical potions to enhance their libido, but partners planning on making the most of their Valentine s Day, might be surprised to learn that one such natural aphrodisiac, due to its exceptionally high antioxidant content, is rooibos. According to experts, antioxidants are critical for a healthy libido. Aside from enhancing general health, antioxidants also allow for the healthy functioning of vital blood vessels and capillaries necessary for optimal sexual function. In addition, antioxidants also ensure that neurons keep firing feel-good messages to the brain, which is considered the most important organ in the body as far as intimacy is concerned. According to the SA Rooibos Council, the tea is exceptionally rich in antioxidants in fact, it contains 50% more antioxidants than green tea, ranking right up there with other libido jump-starters such as red wine and oysters. Adele du Toit, spokesperson for the SA Rooibos Council, explains that antioxidants are substances that are not naturally produced in the human body. Instead, they are obtained through consuming brightly coloured fruits, vegetables and, in particular, rooibos tea. Antioxidants can be thought of as the waste collectors of the nutritional world. They clean up free radicals in the blood that are produced through the oxygenation process as cells use energy. Free radical accumulation is associated with degenerative illnesses, aging and some life-threating diseases. More research continues to confirm the link between foods that we eat, our sense of wellbeing and even our emotions. Eating right, by incorporating food and beverages that are high in antioxidants, such as rooibos tea, is one of the best ways to boost your libido. The good news is that these foods don t have to break the bank. Rooibos tea, for example, sells for a fraction of the cost of a bottle of good red wine. Alternatively, look for a wine that contains rooibos, to get the best of both, says du Toit. For those looking forward to a romantic night in, here are a few rooibos delicacies that are sure to enhance the romantic mood on Valentine s Day. APERITIF Sweeten up your sweetheart with this red-hot Rooibos Chai tea, cranberry and vodka cocktail. STARTERS Springbok carpaccio with Rooibos Balsamic Reduction is sure to heighten the senses. MAINS Not only is salmon perfect for a romantic dinner, eating oily fish may enhance your feeling of wellbeing, as the Omega 3s it contains can boost your dopamine levels a neurotransmitter vital in supporting your libido. Try this uber-romantic Rooibos-poached salmon dish for mains. DESSERT This Rooibos trifle has romance written all over it. or Try this simply sweet and decadent white chocolate and Rooibos tea fudge recipe for the perfect Valentine s Day treat. THE PERFECT FINISH Round off your Valentine s Day meal with the perfect finish, such as a Red Espresso. For more info about Rooibos and its unique health and beauty benefits, visit www.sarooibos.co.za