Dar es Salaam. After President John Magufuli delivered his address to members of the Judiciary last week, his comments against lawyers were poised to spark debate on the independence of the country s judicial process.Opposition and human rights defenders raised questions over the President s remarks against members of the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) who, according to him, had political affiliations. Dr Magufuli warned that such lawyers would not be considered for presidential appointments to top judicial jobs.Reacting to the remarks, some political analysts and legal experts cried foul, saying this appeared to be a systematic attempt by the Executive to tighten its grip on independent institutions.Analysts also said they were worried that the President could be setting a bad precedent, something that posed a serious threat to human rights and the justice delivery system.But was the outcry over Dr Magufuli s remarks justified? Or was he quoted out of context? A few days after the Law Day speech, the President himself decried the fact that Tanzanians had a tendency to blow things out of proportion -- to take a perceived controversial statement and simply make a story out of it.Perhaps he was right. Perhaps he did not mean what he said when he warned that TLS members who took political sides wouldn t be considered for appointments -- maybe he was just throwing a friendly punch to suspected opposition sympathisers within the Judiciary.And maybe when he warned lawyers of arrest if they came out to defend known poachers, he was just trying, in a manner of speech, to empasise the seriousness of the poaching problem while appealing to the conscience of those who had the legal prowess to help even the guilty escape the long arm of the law.The Tanganyika Law Society itself, which is at the centre of it all, does not really believe that the President meant what he said, literally.Quoted out of contextMr John Seka, the TLS president, said Dr Magufuli was possibly quoted out of context, that he didn t really mean what was now shaping public debate on his Law Day remarks. Lawyers are guided by the Constitution, he said.On what stirred up an hornest s nest, that lawyers who defended known poachers, those caught red-handed , should be arrested, the TLS president said they would defend their colleagues.He noted: If any lawyer is arrested for defending his or her clients, the TLS will chip in to advocate and issue a statement. However, he was quick to point out that it would also depend on how the lawyers are implicated in the cases.But addressing reporters in Dodoma last week, Chadema chairman Freeman Mbowe said the President did not mince his words. His comments interfered with the Judiciary, one of the three pillars of the state.He accused the Head of State of trampling on the constitution. Instead of emphasising the implementation of duty within the confines of the law and Constitution, the President persuaded the Judiciary to practise on the contrary, he said. This is embarrassing; worse still, judges and lawyers were cheering him on, supporting the statements. Mr Mbowe, who is also the leader of the official Opposition in parliament, asked judges and lawyers to face the public and challenge the President s statements because they contravened the Constitution.Unnecessary public debateHe challenged the President s advisers to ensure he avoids remarks that spark unnecessary public debate. It is dangerous when the President is allowed to issue statements that contravene the law, he said.The opposition leader said that presidents are not above the law, and presidential decrees should not always be taken to be law in themselves.A TLS member, Mr Peter Kibatala, said his association should issue a statement on the President s speech, saying that three of his colleagues were arrested while fulfilling their responsibilities. He said the first incident took place in Arusha where the lawyer was only set free after the TLS intervened. The second arrest, he said, occurred in 2015, when Mr Lawrence Masha was arrested for allegedly uttering abusive language to the police when he went to attend to his clients at the Oysterbay Police Station. The third arrest took place at Magomeni Police Station where another colleague had gone to attend to his clients. All the arrests took place before the President s statement, but we still expect the TLS to release a statement on the issue, he said.He also noted that nobody should be criminalised until proven guilty by the courts of law. When Mwalimu Nyerere was prosecuted over sedition charges, he wasn t denied his right to legal representation. Where would we be had the colonial regime denied him his rights? Another lawyer, Mr Felix Kibodya, also noted that everybody has the right to be provided with legal assistance. This is a constitutional right, it s not just in Tanzania. It s international, he said.A law lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Dr Onesmo Kyauke, noted that presidential advisers had a role to play in ensuring the President was up to speed on legal matters because it is their constitutional obligation. His legal advisers are the ones to blame, for possibly not advising him properly. Reporting by Louis Kolumbia, Elias Msuya and Daniel Mjema