Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan announced the creation of a new top personal income tax bracket where South Africa s super rich would pay a tax rate of 45 percent. This is one exclusive new club that high earners will be scrambling to stay out of. It affects those who have taxable incomes of R1.5 million, or R125 000 a month, and above. It is part of increases in the budget aimed at raising an additional R28 billion in taxes. It is also a direct response to the fact that wealth in South Africa, as in most of the modern world, remains highly concentrated. Gordhan had noted earlier that in South Africa 95% of wealth is in the hands of 10% of the population . The combination of this new top marginal income tax bracket and only limited relief for bracket creep, which protects taxpayers against losing more than they gain when an earnings increase pushes them into a higher tax bracket, is expected to raise an additional R16.5 billion for the Treasury in the 2017/18 tax year. READ MORE: Budget: Social grants spending to increase Another proposal focused on the upper end of the income spectrum is an increase in the tax rate shareholders pay on dividends. Gordhan said the dividend withholding tax rate would increase from 15% to 20%, which was expected to raise an additional R6.8 billion. And, as Gordhan mentioned to the media at a briefing before the budget speech, we haven t forgotten about the drinkers and tobacco consumers who are very close to our hearts . Drinkers and smokers, who are by now accustomed to annual tax increases, might not be impressed by the finance minister s suggestion that taking care of their hearts and livers was the reason for the increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. The so-called sin taxes go up by between six percent and 10%. A new sin tax, a tax on sugary beverages, is expected to come into force during this tax period. The budget included an increase of 30c per litre in the general fuel levy and 9c per litre in the road accident fund levy. The combination of these measures was expected to raise an additional R5.1 billion. Some relief was given in the affordable housing market through an increase in the threshold above that transfer duty is paid, from R750 000 to R900 000. Also, the annual allowance for tax-free savings accounts will be increased to R33 000 and the medical tax credit will be increased in line with inflation this year. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.