Jim Crowley described Ertijaal as an aero plane after his win in the Meydan Sprint last week. It s ironic as an aeroplane is the one thing that has been conspicu ously absent from the sprinter s career since he hit the big time. For the last three seasons he s led a successful but sheltered ex istence in the United Arab Emir ates, but there must be a chance that last week s hugely impressive victory will persuade connections to show him off around the world this year. Since 2014 he s run at just two tracks, Meydan and Abu Dhabi. Nine of his 10 starts in that time came in the months of January and February. The other was in March. But, although he s enjoyed an easy programme, kicking his heels for 10 months a year, he has taken those limited opportunities to prove himself a real force at the highest level of world sprinting. He first raised eyebrows by winning a pair of valuable Mey dan handicaps under big weights last year before stepping up to Group 1 company and finishing second to Australian star Buffer ing in the Al Quoz Sprint on Dubai World Cup night. He finished last season with a peak RPR (Racing Post rating) of 120 and has improved again this year, winning another valuable handicap off an even higher mark and just as easily on his penul timate start. Then he won his first graded race at Meydan last week. He was 4-7 favourite for the Meydan Sprint when the only real question was whether he could be as monstrous as he has been in handicaps at level weights. If he had failed to impress in graded company we might have labelled him a weight-carri er . You sometimes get these in 1000m races and it simply means the weight on their back does not hinder their speed as much as you might expect and therefore their handicap form can look decep tively good. But, as it happens, he improved again in the Group 3 race, win ning easily with a freakish burst of speed taking him well clear of his rivals in the final 200m to re cord the quickest ever time over 1000m at Meydan 55.90sec. An RPR of 123 for this success ranks him as the best sprinter in the world at this very early stage of the year, ahead of the leading Hong Kong speedsters and Satur day s Black Caviar Lightning win ner Terravista (120). The Dubai sprint programme has changed slightly this year, which means he will probably have to step up to 1200m for his next start in either the Nad Al Sheba Sprint on Super Saturday or the Al Quoz Sprint (switched from 1000m to 1200m this year) on World Cup night. With winning form over 1400m, he should handle the ex tra distance, although speed is clearly his forte and there s no telling whether he ll be quite as potent over the longer sprint dis tance as he hasn t run beyond the minimum trip for two years. Beyond that connections should be looking global. Regular partner Crowley says he s up with the best sprinters he s ever ridden and there should be opportuni ties on the international circuit for a horse this fast if connections fancy it. How he gets on over 1200m next time will give us a better idea of potential targets. If he sees it out well, something like the King s Stand Stakes over the undulating straight 1000m at Royal Ascot could be worth a look. The 10-year average RPR for winners of that race stands at 121, so he s already thereabouts If things go to plan next month and connections wanted to get re ally adventurous, they could even grab a ticket for the world s rich est turf race, the Everest, set to be run at Randwick in October. Owner Sheikh Hamdan Al Maktoum has an international racing portfolio, so overseas trips must be in his mind with Ertijaal, who has just turned six, suggest ing this could be his time to shine. racingpost.com