Music lovers are in for a treat, with the Ultra South Africa music festival hitting South African shores once more. After first debuting in South Africa four years ago, the South African chapter of this international music festival has a new home in Cape Town, the Cape Town Stadium. This new home brings the Cape Town chapter of Ultra South Africa from the outskirts of the city, where it was last held at an ostrich farm, to its heart. Ultra South Africa co-founder and renown DJ, Shaun Duvet, hosted a media tour of Ultra South Africa s new home, where he gave them a sneak preview of what fans can expect. Duvet told African News Agency (ANA) that work on preparing the set started on Saturday last week, and they had a production crew of between 800 1,000 people working behind-the-scenes to make the festival a success. The production team was still hard at work in the blistering midday sun putting up the set for Friday s production. He mentioned that work for the production in Cape Town and Johannesburg started on the same day, and it took about a week to put together a production of this scale. Duvet told ANA that they were expecting a crowd of between 17,000 20,000 for the Cape Town production and between 26,000 30,000 for the Johannesburg production. There would be three dance floors, namely Resistance, the Main Stage and Bridges for Music. Leading the tour to the stadium s underground parking section, the crew was hard at work building the stage for the Resistance dance floor, which will feature artists such as Black Coffee, Nic Fanciulli and Crazy White Boy. Duvet said this stage was underground because they wanted to keep it cool and techno. The entire underground dance floor will act as a dance floor for this particular stage . This dance floor can hold about 2,500 people at a time, and festival goers will be able to move between the various dance floors and different areas. The Bridges for Music stage will feature various artists including Siphe Fassie and DJ Eugenics. There will be a lot of LED lighting and of course sound and the expectations of a bigger crowd, said Duvet. He said the main stage, the centre of it all, is where all the big acts will perform. The main line up includes the likes of French DJ, record producer, remixer and songwriter David Guetta, Dutch DJ, record producer and musician Martin Garrix, French DJ and producer DJ Snake, and well known South African deejays, producers and presenters DJ Fresh and Euphonik. Other headline acts includes KSHMR, Dash Berlin, HeadHunters2, Felix Jaehn and Kryoman. The first Ultra Music Festival was held in Miami, United States in 1999. It soon became a global phenomenon, featuring in various countries around the world. It is one of the biggest music festivals of its kind in the world. Duvet said he travelled the world meeting various DJs and artists and when he met with the Ultra Music Festival organisers, they connected very well and a partnership was born to bring the festival to South Africa. Sharing his thoughts on South Africa s electro music scene, and young upcoming artists, Duvet said he thought that the fact that Ultra South Africa attracts such huge crowds in both Cape Town and Johannesburg is a testament to how large and vibrant the country s music scene is. It is just something you have to experience for yourself. Come support the music festival and get on the dance floor. There are a few tickets left to get to the Ultra Music festival and they can be booked on www.ultrasouthafrica.com. Ultra South Africa will be performing in Cape Town on Friday February 24, and in Johannesburg on Saturday February 25. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;