The Titans looked like sneaking home in the opening domestic One-Day Cup match in Centurion on Friday night before Robbie Frylinck lashed the fastest half-century in the competition s history to carry the Dolphins to an astonishing five-wicket win with three balls to spare. The Titans had posted 324 for seven, which seemed a little less than they should have got after an opening stand of 153 between Henry Davids (87) and Jonathan Vandiar (51), with the home side scoring just 119 runs and losing five wickets in the last 15 overs. They nonetheless looked on course for victory as they reduced the Dolphins to 259 for five, needing 66 off 35 balls to win the game. The burly Frylinck then cut loose, blasting six fours and three sixes as he finished with 54 not out off just 20 balls, a superb display of finishing by the one-time Delhi Daredevils player in the Indian Premier League. Frylinck needed just 19 deliveries to reach his fifty, putting him in the record books as he beat the previous record of 20 balls set by Qaasim Adams for the Titans against the Highveld Lions at the same venue last season. The Dolphins also enjoyed a fabulous platform for their run-chase as Sarel Erwee (70) and Morne van Wyk (61) put on 117 for the first wicket in 21 overs. Cody Chetty then added a 55-ball 50. After that, the Dolphins lost their way, leaving Frylinck with a mountain to climb, successfully in the end. The 32-year-old Frylinck came in after Keshav Maharaj had provided some much-needed impetus with 38 off 22 balls, but the Proteas Test spinner fell trying to hook a David Wiese slower-ball bouncer. Morne Morkel, returning after his back injury, had bowled well in his second spell in tandem with brother and captain Albie (who took two wickets), but he was savaged by Frylinck in the 46th over, being hit for two sixes. Junior Dala was then slaughtered in the 47th over, Frylinck clubbing three fours and a six as the Titans bowlers were let down by the execution of their skills at the death. The Titans had been sent in to bat by the Dolphins and they were boosted in the second half of their innings by Rivaldo Moonsamy s 68 off 46 deliveries. Moonsamy, playing for the Titans for the first time, collected nine fours and two sixes by using clever improvisations and excellent placement of the ball. But the Titans were denied the sort of explosive finish they needed by Calvin Savage, who took four for 60 in his 10 overs, while Rabian Engelebrecht also bowled well to concede just 51 runs in his 10 overs. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.