The successful season of 29-year-old Aldo Domey er has got even better with the confirmation from the Candice Bass- Robinson yard that they ve ap pointed him as their first-choice jockey. Yes, Aldo will be riding most of our horses in future, said Can dice s now-retired father, Mike Bass. It s already been a memorable campaign for Andrew Fortune s son with a call-up to represent the SA side in the internationals in November and, more recently, booting home six winners at a meeting at Kenilworth. He s also got a Met winner in his locker having scored on Martial Eagle in 2013 and his rise to the top of his profession is due to his steely-like determination which his father showed when winning the 2008/09 jockeys champion ship. It s a remarkable success story because in 2003 he was told by the riding masters at the SA Acad emy that he wasn t good enough. He returned four years later and proved his detractors wrong by riding over 200 winners during his apprenticeship. Aldo replaces Grant van Niekerk although Mike added that we will still use him from time to time. It looks as if Grant is paying the price for a disappointing Sun Met Day when he rode 10 horses for the Bass-Robinson stable and only made the winner s box once &#8211; Live Life capturing the CTS Sprint. &nbsp; It was a disappointing ride in the Met as we d been confident of a big run, said Mike. Grant s notable defeats includ ed the favourite, Horizon, in the Investec Derby, Silver Mountain, badly drawn like her stablemate victor Nightingale in the Klaw ervlei Majorca Stakes and Marin aresco who failed to make the first four in the Sun Met. Interestingly, Aldo isn t as sured of the ride on the R1,3-mil lion Silvano gelding, Marinaresco. It s possible we might engage the big guns for him, said Mike. The plan for Marinaresco, who like Legal Eagle will not be going to America, is an assault on the Durban season taking in the Gold Challenge and another tilt at the Vodacom Durban July. On the jockeys front, Gavin Lerena has overtaken Greg Cheyne at the top of the national log and is riding with such con fidence another title looks very much on the cards. It s in his fa vour that he s getting the plum rides for the Geoff Woodruff sta ble which &#8211; remember Louis The King &#8211; usually hits top gear at this time of the year. Gavin scored a facile win on the stable s Aussie import, Street Gaze, at Turffontein last Saturday and this daughter of Street Cry looks every inch a classic pros pect. Although my bet on Andy For tune for the title isn t completely down the tubes as you never know what can happen because of in jury or suspension, his chances of taking the trophy are about as likely as Arsenal winning the Pre mier League! *** One thing that has never been in doubt is the Scott family s pas sion for racing. That s why the events of the last six months have been so tragic with the passing of Uncle George , Colin and his sis ter, Janet. A most terrible period for Col in s brother, Rob, who is head of Tellytrack. Colin, who has passed away from cancer at the age of 52, was one of those rare guys whose opti mism cheered you up on a bad day. You got the feeling he would cross the street for you if you were in trouble. You can t say that about many people. I was lucky enough to get to know Colin well during his time as a trainer in Gauteng. He was granted his licence in 1999 and gave up his role as a stockbroker to concentrate on his passion of racing. It was racing s gain and the business world s loss. He decided on a move to Kwa Zulu-Natal and &#8211; if my memory serves me well &#8211; had notable suc cess with Sage Throne (first home in the 2011 Gold Circle Derby but lost the race on an objection), Ex tinct (seven wins), Cool Prospect and Fourth Estate. His last winner was Mackdesi at Greyville and you can bet your last rand that brother Rob had a sizeable wager. Sage Throne, a son of Dynasty, was picked up by Rob at a disper sal sale of former leading owner, Graham Beck. It proved a shrewd purchase and gave a small stable the chance of hitting the big time. On my annual sojourns to Dur ban for the July and Gold Cup, Col in and I would always have a chat and he told me at the 2011 Gold Cup: Molly, I m going to win next year s July with Sage Throne. The four year-old made the 2012 July field but there was no fairytale ending with Colin s run ner finishing unplaced behind Striker s mount, Pomodoro. Over the years, I have been fortunate to forge close ties with a number of trainers and Colin Scott was one of them. He will be fondly remembered by many peo ple.