The two hikers who got lost in bad weather in the Umtamvuna Nature Reserve near Port Edward in KwaZulu-Natal have been found unharmed, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said on Sunday. During the late afternoon, the two hikers Dr Corne van Rensburg from Amanzimtoti and pastor Wille Henning from Port Edward, both aged 66 were found safe, NSRI Port Edward station commander John Nicholas said. An extensive search operation included NSRI Port Edward, Ezemvelo Kwa-Zulu Wildlife Park rangers, police search and rescue, Medivac ambulance services, GP Security, Balito specialised search and rescue, local farmers, and the Port Edward Ratepayers Association, he said. In heavy rain and mist no sign of the men could be found despite briefly having contact with them by cellphone during this morning [Sunday] before their cellphones batteries died and despite an extensive search operation. During the afternoon the weather lifted for half-an-hour and local pilot Dean Riley volunteered his helicopter to assist in the search, flying over an area where we thought they may be based on all indications, despite it being a barely accessible area, and they were spotted in that area but well off the hiking trail by Dean who picked them up in his helicopter. They have told us that during their hike it got very humid and hot and they left the trail to go and swim but then the weather changed and in thick mist and heavy rain they never found the hiking trail until being rescued. They were not injured. All services and everyone involved are commended for the massive community effort, Nicholas said. Earlier, he said the alarm was raised on Saturday evening after the two, who had been on a hike believed to have been on one of the Long Walk trails, failed to turn up at the expected time. An extensive search throughout the night revealed no sign of the two men and the search continued from first light on Sunday with a police K-9 search and rescue team joining in the search. African News Agency (ANA)