South Africa moved to an unassailable 3-0 lead in their Davis Cup tie against Estonia at Irene Country Club, in Pretoria, on Saturday. Raven Klaasen and Ruan Roelofse came from set down to win the doubles rubber to give South Africa an early victory. After a slow start which saw South Africa lose the opening set in the tie breaker 6-7 (4), Klaasen and Roelofse regrouped to beat Kenneth Raisma and Mattias Siimar 6-7 (4) 6-3 6-4 7-5. The win gave South Africa the all-important third point to seal the first round tie. On Friday, both Nik Scholtz and Lloyd Harris won their opening day singles rubbers which put the hosts in a comfortable 2-0 position going in to the doubles on Saturday. That rubber was tougher than we expected, said South African captain Marcos Ondruska after the win. We knew the Estonian youngsters could play good doubles but we really didn t expect them to come out firing like they did. After my boys lost the opening set, we had to step up and make the most of all the opportunities. Raven and Ruan did just that and capitalised on their experience which resulted them winning the next three sets to clinch the rubber and tie. This was the fourth tie Klaasen and Roelofse had played together and remain unbeaten as a team. Ondruska gave praise to the Estonians, and said that the doubles rubber was of world class standard and that the spectators were treated to a real good match. Raven Klaasen said he was very excited about the result. We didn t get off to the best start as we would have of liked and come back from a set down. But that s Davis Cup for you. &#8220;You never know what to expect. Players representing their country tend to play better than usual and these Estonian youngsters came out swinging and did themselves proud. Klaasen said that he was happy that he and Roelofse had given the team victory as it took the stress off the team for Sunday s reverse singles. South Africa seeded 8th, look to play Slovenia seeded 2nd at home from the 7-9 April in the second round of Euro/Africa Group 2. Slovenia lead Monaco at home 2-0, and are expected to win the doubles rubber too. The last time South Africa played Slovenia was in 2015 away and Slovenia won that tie 4-1. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.