Trainer Brett Crawford is having a wonderful season and could have a few more winners at Kenilworth on Wednesday. For the last season or two it was a case of looking which ones were to be ridden by jockey Corne Orffer but that is not the case anymore as Greg Cheyne and others have also been given numerous winning rides. Probably the most likely winner for the Crawford yard is in Race 5, a Maiden Plate over 2000m where Redeemer makes an appearance. This Captain Al Colt has had two starts and a tough draw on debut saw Redeemer finish only eighth but only beaten 3.35 lengths by subsequent winner Icon King. Redeemer had to switch after being eased in the running so it was a run full of merit. The three-year-old colt returned to Kenilworth in January to finish runner-up behind Loadshedder over 1600m and beaten two lengths. Redeemer was doing his best work at the finish so the step up in distance should suit him nicely. A good draw in stall No 2 should make it an easy ride for jockey Orffer. The Orffer-Crawford combination may have Shangri La to beat in Race 6, a FM 72 Handicap over 1800m as their filly Seattle Gold may not stay the distance. Pole position draw could give Seattle Gold the run of the race but she tired late over 1600m and her year older rival is clearly improving. Shangri La followed a maiden win in November with a solid win a month later. Gimme One Night in Race 7, a MR 71 Handicap over 1800m is another Crawford-Orffer runner who should go close to winning. This three-year-old gelding has some promising post maiden form and was only run out of it late last time out over 2000m so will find this distance more to his liking. In Race 8, a FM 76 Handicap over 1000m, Crawford has three runners and all have winning chances. Clifton Sunset will be ridden by Orffer but it is stable companion Sails Set, the mount of Greg Cheyne who is preferred. This Captain Al filly is at her very best over this course and distance. The yard s third runner Stopthinkingofme could prefer the drop to 1000m and can earn a stake cheque. Punters could leave the course on a winning note as Jabu in Race 9 is improving and can score again. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.