United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa wants to eradicate provinces because they are glorified homelands . Participating in day one of the debate on President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address (Sona), Holomisa said national government should take control of provinces and rather capacitate municipalities. With regard to provincial governments, the question is do we really need these glorified homelands? We should rather strengthen the local sphere of government and let national government take control , he said. Holomisa is the erstwhile leader of the Transkei, the apartheid era homeland a territory set aside for black South Africans. READ MORE: Sona2017 Debate: MPs must find their moral compass Radebe While acknowledging the great strides made since 1994, when the homelands were dissolved, Holomisa decried the current state of affairs in the country. As we enter the 23rd year of our democracy we see a rise in the levels of anxiety and anger among South Africans, with anarchy knocking at our door, said Holomisa. The most disturbing reality is that we see an increase in the politics of patronage, uncontrollable corruption, the collapse of government institutions, a high unemployment rate, lack of development, failing health and education systems, widening inequality, chronic poverty and ineffective provincial governments. Holomisa proposed an alternative to the ruling African National Congress national policy conference set to take place in June this year a national consultative conference, open to all South African citizens. It will discuss, among others, how meaningful economic tranformation would be realised. The conference should also evaluate agreements reached between the ANC and the apartheid regime during the negotiations to end oppressive rule in South Africa. Meaningful transformation, including the tranfer of land and control of the economy, will never be realised so long as those agreements lock the majority of citizens outside the mainstream. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.