You may not have heard about Alzheimer s Disease (AD) in Tanzania but it does exist and it affects elderly men and women of this country.Many cases of AD have been reported in western countries but little is heard about it locally because of limited research.The world has now become a global village and diseases that were thought to occur elsewhere, are now increasingly affecting our nations AD is one of them.Alzheimer s disease is a form of dementia a condition associated with memory loss and dwindling intellectual capabilities, like reasoning and thinking. It occurs mostly among the elderly.Some studies showed that AD is the cause of 60 to 70 per cent of the cases of dementia.Last year, a study done in Hai District, Kilimanjaro region, titled: The prevalence of dementia in rural Tanzania: a cross-sectional community-based study, showed that the prevalence of dementia, a result of Alzheimer s disease, was as prevalent in Tanzania as reported in high-income countries.The study was carried out among people aged 70. Alzheimer s biggest risk factor is aging. However, it is not a normal part of aging. Out of 1,198 people surveyed, 184 screened positive for probable dementia, and 104 screened positive for possible dementia using the Community Screening Instrument for Dementia.While majority of people who have Alzheimer s are over the age of 65, it can happen in someone younger. About 5 per cent of people with this disease are in this age group, some studies have shown.This is a disease that progressively gets worse over time. In late stages, someone with Alzheimer s may not be able to communicate or reason with those around them.There is no cure at this time. However, there are treatments that can slow the progression and improve the quality of life for those with the disease.Signs of an Alzheimer s patientMemory problems are usually the first symptoms of Alzheimer s. Remembering things that have been recently learned is especially difficult.Some other symptoms are confusion about places or times, unable to find words while speaking, misplacing objects you use regularly, changes to personality and repeating things over.This disease does not affect everyone in the same way, so individuals may experience symptoms at different times.Risk factors for Alzheimer sThe exact cause of Alzheimer s is not clear, but there are a number of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors that can contribute.However, what is known is that Alzheimer s damages the brain and its brain cells. This leads to the brain shrinking.There are a number of things that are considered as risk factors for Alzheimer s. The most common of these is aging, as it tends to occur in people over the age of 60.Some other common risk factors are: family history, Down syndrome and severe head trauma.Lifestyle changes to adoptThere are a number of things you can adopt in your lifestyle or the lifestyle of someone you love that will help manage some of the symptoms of Alzheimer s.Some of these things are; always keep keys, wallet, etc., in the same place. Remove unnecessary mirrors (images in mirrors can confuse or scare those with Alzheimer s).Make sure shoes have good traction to avoid slipping and falling. Keep photos and other meaningful things in view. Keep a mobile phone in your pocket with GPS to help if you ever get lost.Keep medication simple and in a daily container to avoid confusion. Keep a routine as much as possible.