The estate of former top racehorse owner Adriaan van Vuuren and his wife Rika was today provisionally sequestrated following an urgent application by Van Vuuren s former boss, Telkom subsidiary company Trudon. Judge Jody Kollapen granted a provisional sequestration order in the High Court in Pretoria against the couple, who were once celebrated as the owners of three-year-old equine superstar Abashiri, the gelding that won the Triple Crown the SA Derby, Gauteng Guineas and SA Classic before quitting horse racing last year. Counsel for Rika Van Vuuren told the court she was in the process of divorcing from her husband and had no knowledge of what he was doing, although their lifestyle must have raised some suspicions . She was forced to sell one of their luxury vehicles for R600 000 to keep her head above water after all of their bank accounts were frozen. Mrs Van Vuuren said she had no idea of her husband s present whereabouts and counsel for Trudon said it was unclear where Van Vuuren seemed to be for the service of any court papers or orders on him. Trudon earlier this month obtained an order freezing the bank accounts of Van Vuuren, their former IT manager, his wife, various business entities and family trusts, alleging in court papers that the couple had lived like millionaires while allegedly in the process of defrauding Trudon of R500 million. A provisional order, interdicting the couple from dealing with any of their assets, including 17 properties, numerous racehorses, luxury vehicles and businesses, was extended. Trudon s procurement manager, Barend van der Walt, said in court papers the company had established that Van Vuuren had over a number of years committed massive fraud, resulting in enormous losses and criminal charges being laid against him and his wife. Van Vuuren was suspended in October last year because of serious allegations of misconduct arising from the company s Mobile Add Exchange Network Pilot Project conducted during the municipal elections. He resigned shortly thereafter. Van der Walt said forensic investigations revealed that Van Vuuren had over the years used two close corporations, Bites Bee Holdings and The Corporate Choice, to acquire and sell to Trudon IT software, which did not exist and were never delivered. Trudon established that the couple had spent more than R16.5 million on thoroughbred horses between 2014 and 2015 and paid cash for their extensive assets, including numerous properties, SUV vehicles, a wedding venue in Cullinan and several fast-food restaurants all of this while Van Vuuren earned just over R107 000 per month. Also read: Abashiri&#8217;s former owner in court for alleged R5m fraud