The African National Congress (ANC) in parliament says former Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe will not be sworn in as a member of the National Assembly on Wednesday, as has been widely reported. ALSO READ: Brian Molefe is a member of the Irene branch, ANC in Tshwane confirms Speaking to Jacaranda FM on Tuesday, acting ANC parliamentary spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli said Speaker Baleka Mbete was still to confirm a date and time for the swearing-in ceremony. Mhlauli also added that the ruling party s caucus in parliament also had to decide which committee Molefe would serve on. As the ANC caucus comrade, Molefe will only be deployed in a committee once he is sworn in. The caucus leadership and Molefe will sit down and decide which committee he will be best suited to serve on, Mhlauli told Jacaranda FM. Although Mhlauli said the ANC in parliament did not issue statements regarding the swearing in of MPs, she confirmed that Makhosi Khoza has been moved from the standing committee on finance to become the chairperson of the public service and administration committee. ALSO READ: ANC moves top finance MP to make way for Molefe report Business Day reported on Tuesday that Khoza had been removed from the portfolio committee to make way for Molefe. However, Mhlauli refused to be drawn into speculation behind Khoza s sudden appointment. The ANC s Hartbeespoort branch held a media briefing during the day, where they endorsed Molefe s deployment as an MP. This is despite the party in Tshwane disputing that the former Eskom CEO was a member in good standing at Oom Gov Mbeki branch in Hartbeespoort Dam, in the Madibeng subregion. Tshwane secretary Paul Mojapelo claimed that Molefe belonged to the party s Irene branch in Pretoria. However, Hartbeespoort branch chairperson Bethuel Mmutle produced Molefe s paid membership application form from 2011 up to 2015 as evidence that he had been a member in Ward 29 of Madibeng. ALSO READ: Gupta-linked Molefe likely to become Gordhan s deputy, DA alleges For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.