We have two nice runners in a strong race, Mike de Kock com mented about SA-breds Light The Lights (Bernard Fayd Herbe) and Noah From Goa (Christophe Soumillon), leading contenders in today s Grade 2 Za beel Mile over 1600m on turf in Dubai. Both of ours have enjoyed good preparations, they both have chances but there is a case to be made for every runner in this small field. I think Championship is the horse to beat, reported De Kock on his website, www.mik edekockracing.com. Noah From Goa has done eve rything right, it s his second run back and he s got 4.25-lengths to find with Championship on their encounter in the District One Tro phy. I said after that race that Noa would improve by the distance he was beaten and I ll stick to that. There is no weight swing in Noah From Goa s favour but he has made the desired progress to get significantly closer this time. Light The Lights is going for the Jebel Hatta in a fortnight, this is slightly short for him. He drops in distance but he is very fresh and this race will be to his ben efit. Alareef and Sanshaawes are two other Blue Stable runners to face the starter at the meeting. Alareef goes back up in trip to 1400m on the dirt in Race 1, where Jim Crowley faces a stiff task from a wide draw. Alareef received a penalty for his win last time out, but his draw is worse than the penalty. He will need a miracle to win from there, Mike said. The consistent Sanshaawes (Pat Cosgrave) takes on a talented field in Race 7, the Grade 3 Dubai Millennium Stakes over 2000m on turf. There are two top hors es here against us in Zarak and Promising Run. We d be delighted with a third or a fourth place, De Kock concluded. Meanwhile Ed Marnane re ports from Dubai that Godolphin are dominating the carnival, rak ing up most of the major prizes, and their two-pronged challenge with Cymric and Flash Fire merit respect. The former, trained by Charlie Appleby, a trainer with near 40% strike-rate at Meydan this winter, has the stronger claims. A Group 1 placegetter at two, he returned to his best when winning a valuable handicap on his Meydan debut on his first start for Appleby since being gelded. Ertijaal, the top local sprinter, returns in the Meydan Sprint, run over 1000m on turf, Race 4. Trained by Ali Rashid Al Rayhi, Ertijaal began the year in style, running out a comfortable winner of a valuable handicap on his sea sonal debut and taking his Mey dan tally to five. He should cement his Al Quoz Sprint claims and provide Jim Crowley with anoth er major prize in his first season in Dubai for his main employer, Sheikh Hamdan Al Maktoum. Dubai Carnival stalwart Sole Power, the 2015 Al Quoz Sprint hero, contests his sixth straight Meydan Sprint for trainer Eddie Lynam, and is one to consider at decent odds. The veteran, a five-time winner at the highest level on the world stage, produced his best effort for some time when fourth behind Speed Hawk, stay ing on nicely in the closing stages. Recent Cape Verdi heroine Very Special sets the standard in the Balanchine Stakes, a race the Godolphin-owned horse won 12 months ago, becoming the first filly in history to land the Cape Verdi/Balanchine double. Hail ing from the all-conquering Saeed bin Suroor yard, she should prove difficult to beat despite cramped odds. Muffri ha, trained by William Haggas, made a pleasing return in the Cape Verdi, running a sound race when a close third behind Very Special on her first appear ance since November. She ll be sharper for the race and is a sport ing selection to reverse the plac ings and provide her trainer with his first success at Meydan since Soorah s victory five years ago.