Forensic investigator Paul O Sullivan hit back against his arrest on Monday in contravention of a court order by opening yet another case against the police on Wednesday with the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) for contempt of court. He also accused the 17 police officials involved in his arrest of grossly violating his human rights under the constitution. O Sullivan appeared on Thursday in the Pretoria Magistrates&#8217; Court on charges of fraud, extortion, attempted extortion, intimidation and impersonating an Ipid official, following his dramatic arrest and eventual release on Monday night. O Sullivan was arrested about 500 metres from AfriForum s Centurion offices by investigating officer and North West head of commercial crime Brigadier Pharasa Ncube, who had decided to ignore the order by Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba of the North Gauteng Division of the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria stating O Sullivan had to be given 48 hours notice of his impending arrest. READ MORE: O Sullivan granted bail in Gauteng court Judge Francis Legodi said Ledwaba had confirmed the original order preventing O Sullivan s arrest unless the conditions laid down by Ledwaba were adhered to and subsequently ordered the matter removed from the roll and made another order that the police must comply with Ledwaba s previous court order. Speaking about his arrest, O Sullivan said it wasn t right . He added: I m a 62-year-old man, my health isn t good and they treated me like a common criminal. They also set bail which murderers would have to pay. Police spokesperson Brigadier Sally de Beer said that, while on R10 000 bail, O Sullivan may not interfere, intimidate, contact or communicate with state witnesses verbally, telephonically, by email or in any manner whatsoever, may not reveal the identity of state witnesses, must stay away from acting national police commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane s home and has to inform Ncube if he intends to leave the country. O Sullivan s legal consultant Sarah-Jane Trent was arrested on similar charges last week and released on R6 000 bail after an urgent court application on Sunday night. The furore revolves around O Sullivan s role in an investigation of Phahlane. At the heart of the probe are allegations Phahlane acquired his R8 million home with the proceeds of corruption. O Sullivan is assisting Ipid with the probe and is also the complainant in the matter. Phahlane has launched court action in a bid to keep O Sullivan out of the investigation. Cases against Paul O Sullivan: Bramley: fraud and extortion, registered in April 2016 and going to trial in Randburg in April. Rosebank: kidnapping, registered in May 2016 and going to trial in Randburg in March. OR Tambo International Airport: contravening the Immigration Act, registered in April 2016. He will again appear in court on March 17. Kempton Park: extortion, fraud and intimidation, registered in March 2016. He will again appear in court on July 27. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.