During a brief meeting with my former university colleagues, the issue of whether alcohol and medications mix or not came up in a discussion yet again. I am sorry my dear doctor, I have a question to ask, said one of my friends, John, who was in attendance.He began by narrating his troubles, I was diagnosed with amoebic dysentry yesterday. The doctor prescribed some tablets known as Norzole, but he instructed me not to take alcohol for five days as I undergo this treatment. But John s most important question was, Now, can I have a beer or two and then continue with my medications tomorrow? After posing the question, we all looked at each other straight in the eyes. We laughed in tandem but John patiently waited for my answer.Sadly, my answer to such a question is always a disappointing one, Never take any alcohol or alcohol containing beverages when using prescribed medication. John s question is one of the most common queries I commonly get on weekends through messages or phone calls.It is worth noting that alcohol can interact with many prescribed drugs leading to undesirable outcomes; including increase heart rate, hypotension, nausea, vomiting, sweating and weakness.One of the most common medications to be warned about is flagyl, an antibiotic commonly prescribed to treat infections. When alcohol mixes with flagyl, a poisonous chemical is produced. This can harm or even kill you.While in most cases the alcohol-drug intolerance disappears after the end of treatment, certain drugs necessitate a period of abstinence even after the completion of the treatment.For instance, when using flagyl (metronidazole), alcohol consumption should be avoided during the treatment and until 24 hours after completion.For tinidazole, alcohol should be abstained during the treatment, and, until 72 and 96 hours respectively.Clinicians should continually advice their clients on the likelihood and fatal outcomes of drug-alcohol interactions.Patients should make it a habit to read and re-read leaflets that always accompany drugs for directives and reminder of possible complications when using the particular drug.In an article by Srividya B. of Andhra University, India, in his article impact of alcohol on drug metabolism and alcohol-drug interactions, he says, We can t make assumption of quantity of the alcohol to be taken while taking medication, so it is good and safe to avoid alcohol consumption while taking the medications. The author is medical doctor based in Dar es Salaam.