However, if a Gunners or Reds supporter, only doom and gloom comes to mind. Life is hard for any non-Chelsea fan right now as the Blues race towards their fifth Premier League title. With Burnley, Swansea and West Ham United up next, as well as no European action, it s just a matter of time before they reach an unassailable position. The rest can only fight for a top-four spot like seriously? It s pretty much as exciting as the ODI series against Sri Lanka or the excuses resonating from our poor national netball team. But before getting all bitter and twisted, consider this fluke out of heaven, especially for all you men out there. While the Atlanta Falcons were cruising 28-3 in the third quarter of the Super Bowl on Sunday, tennis darling Eugenie Bouchard tweeted what millions expected right up until the first extra frame in the game s 51-year history. And so it read: I knew Atlanta would win btw . Two minutes later she tweeted: Woahhhhh and quickly backtracking on her premature forecast, she joked: Just predicted the future lol #SuperBowl (insert angelic emoji here). In the meantime, some random fan had played the fool and dared the Canadian star that should the New England Patriots win, would she go on a date with him. She replied sure and even asked the lucky guy where he s from. Turns out he s much younger than her and goes to school in Missouri. Only time will tell if the posters on his bedroom wall morph into some magical genie from a bottle. While Tom Brady was helping the Patriots mount one of the greatest of comebacks, Leicester City have come out in support of their man Claudio Ranieri. To think that last year this time, the Foxes were parading around England fluffed out tails and all. Halfway into this campaign: five wins from 24 outings, that s it. Sunday s game against fellow log rivals Swansea, also sitting on a measly 21 points could determine a whole lot about the Italian s future as he struggles to stay out of the bottom heap. Thing aren t much better for Arsene Wenger. Listen to the pundits on Sky Sports News and you are bound to hear discussions concerning the Frenchman s tenure following his team s two recent losses. The home defeat to Watford and last Saturday s forgettable trip to Stamford Bridge have seen the Gunners slip to 12 points behind the Blues. And as usual, top-four is as good as it gets. It doesn t get any easier with the resumption of the Champions League. Up next for Wenger s charges? German giants Bayern Munich, who have had the better of Arsenal on all three previous knockout occasions. FA Cup here we come, woohoo. Back home, there will be no love lost as the Absa Premiership gets back on track after taking a back seat to Afcon for a month. Month of love? I don t think so.