The North West Business Forum (NWBF) on Tuesday called on North West premier Supra Mahumapelo to resign amid allegations of corruption. We demand the resignation of the Premier [Mahumapelo]. Our demonstration is peaceful. We are giving the ruling party [African National Congress] a rare opportunity to choose to stand with corruption or the people of North West, said NWBF general secretary Sello Mogodiri. The premier has sent us lawyers letter to silence us. We dare him to continue with the legal suit. It will gave us a rare opportunity to go with him pound for pound to tell the court and show evidence of corruption. Mahumapelo sent a legal letter to the business forum on January 30, demanding a written apology by February 2, failing which Mahumapelo would approach the court for relief. READ MORE: Mahumapelo will never resign, supporters tell business forum Mogodiri said their plan to remove Mahumapelo would continue, despite stalling on Tuesday, after the ANC Youth League marched in support of Mahumapelo. He said the business forum had decided against gathering at the North West legislature to avoid potential violence. He said Mahumapelo s time to govern the province had lapsed. The ANC has been elected by the people of North West, the ANC deployed the Premier. We do not call for regime change, but we are saying give us someone (else). Mogodiri, meanwhile, denied that he had failed to finish 250 low-cost or RDP houses in Lekgophung. Koki Construction, which is owned by Mogodiri, was tasked to build 250 houses, but it has been claimed that his company only built 49 incomplete houses. If I did not build those house why did they pay me? he asked. If I did not finish those houses they should have not paid me. On Tuesday, the ANCYL marched to the provincial legislature in support of Mahumapelo and praised his initiative to develop villages, townships and small dorpies. Receiving the memorandum on behalf of the Speaker, chairperson of the legislature, Itumeleng Mosala said the Premier was appointed by the State President, and no one had authority to recall the Premier except the party that had appointed the Premier, in this case the ANC. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.