According to Frank Smith, a contemporary psycholinguist who is internationally recognised for his contributions in linguistics and cognitive psychology, One language sets you in a corridor for life. Two languages open every door along the way. Apart from helping people to express their feelings, language can open up new opportunities. In this case, learning and knowing a foreign language gives one a huge advantage and it can make one stand out.Unlike in the past, most Tanzanians have come to realise the importance of knowing more than one language. As the world is becoming a global village, in terms of interactions brought by technological advancement, it is inevitable for people to shun learning foreign languages.We now have more foreign languages taught in various local schools than English and French. In recognising the importance to export their language to other countries, the Chinese have explored several avenues in which they introduced and teach their language to Tanzanian students. Knowing that not only at the university level should Tanzanian students start learning Chinese, the language is now being taught in some secondary schools.Benjamin Mkapa High School in Dar es Salaam recently opened a Chinese language class. The school is one among the six secondary schools which have been selected as pilot schools and around 3,000 students have so far been registered for the language classes.The opening of the Chinese language classes coincided with this year s celebrations to mark the Chinese New Year in the presence of the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo and the Deputy Chinese Ambassador to the country Gou Haudong.During the event, Dr Akwilapo was so keen to know if there was any Tanzanian in attendance who could speak Chinese language. I am so happy to attend the celebrations and I feel honoured to officiate the opening of the Chinese language classes in this school. I want to hear who among you can speak Chinese, he challenged the crowd. Luckily, some students managed to speak a few Chinese words.Dr Akwilapo commended the China through its embassy in the country for introducing Chinese language programme in some secondary schools in Tanzania. Soon children will be learning this language from primary school level because we have already set the new syllabus which will include Chinese language programme, he said.Mr Gebo Lugano, the headmaster of Benjamin Mkapa High School on behalf of the school management, expressed his appreciation for the introduction of the programme. He said that there was a positive response from students as well.For his part, the Deputy Chinese Ambassador Gou Haudong said the introduction of the Chinese language programme in various schools in the country cements the good friendship that exists for decades between Tanzania and China. We need an environment for promoting multilingual learning, he said, urging students to work and study hard for the country to achieve the desired development.According to him, more than 200 Tanzanian students have been granted full Chinese government scholarship to study in China. Among them, about 50 students were granted with Confucius Institute scholarship to study Chinese language in China. Upon completion of their studies, these Tanzanian students will become good ambassadors of the friendship the two countries have been enjoying for years, he added. Our good relationship has enhanced various areas; in industrialisation, politics, economy, agriculture and education as well. Now Tanzanian students will have the opportunity to learn our (Chinese) language and by learning foreign languages means that you will appreciate and enjoy the new culture too, he noted.According to the deputy ambassador, the Chinese Kung-fu show performed by Shao Lin Ying Qi Gong group during the event is one among hundreds of cultural elements that Tanzanians can learn from their Chinese counterparts. I m happy to see Tanzanian youth perform Chinese martial art Kung-fu. All this shows how the two countries could exchange and share their culture apart from language, he noted. In our culture, we learn martial arts not for fighting but we learn it in order to build discipline in life especially for the youth as they are going to be adults some day, said the envoy. I m happy to know that we have around 3,000 students registered for Chinese language classes, and some students are learning Kung-fu in their Physical Education classes. I am also impressed that there are more schools on the list for the pilot programme, he added.In Dar es Salaam, Chinese language classes will be taught in two secondary schools. Apart from Benjamin Mkapa Secondary School, Zanaki Secondary School has also being selected for the pilot programme. Other schools are Morogoro Secondary School and Kilakala High School in Morogoro region and Uwanja wa Ndege and Dodoma secondary schools in Dodoma region. Culture and education is the channel in which people communicate to have mutual understanding. I believe Chinese language programme for secondary schools in Tanzania will be the bridge to closely bring nationals of the two countries together, added the deputy Chinese ambassador.Nasra Manyanya, a Form Two student at Benjamin Mkapa Secondary School, said learning foreign languages like Chinese will help them to communicate fluently in multiple languages, something that can offer them a wide range of opportunities. Apart from communication, it helps us understand other people s culture. We can interact with other foreign nationals more freely and of course meeting new people and making new friends give us more fun, and enjoyment, she noted.Another student Boniface Michael said that he learns the language to get knowledge and he believes the language can enhances one s opportunities in government or in other sectors. Foreign language will enable me to communicate and serve people better. If you know more than two foreign languages, you get confidence.In our class, everybody has different reasons for learning this language but on my side the language will open up employment opportunities noted the boy whose dream is to be a businessman.A form five teacher, Elizabeth Mapela is among the teachers who enrolled in Chinese class. She said that learning a second language can pave the way and open up tons of wonderful job opportunities out there. There are lots of job opportunities for people with various secondary language skills and it is true that international companies prefer to hire people who speak more than one language, she added.Mussa Awadhi Mussa, is form one teacher, he is also among the teachers who enrolled in Chinese class. He said Chinese language is essential in every aspect and interaction in everyday lives. Knowledge of their language as well as their cultures shows that we respect the ideas that they bring to the table and you understand their needs and wants better than somebody who does not have this background noted the Mathematics and computer teacher.He added that Chinese is not hard to learn because it has no tenses, no cases, no genders among others. There are better ways to learn Chinese like using computer, some software like Chinese chat, and playing cd. I am not learning Chinese because it is easy and accessible, but the knowledge will bring to me same benefits like to be hired, get scholarship for studies or to be a translator .