Tumi Morake is taking her comedy to the people. Embarking on her first official South African tour, she will be entertaining audiences from Nelspruit to Cape Town with her hilarious one-woman show, Tumi or Not Tumi. The show follows her journey as she tries to find herself in the schizophrenia of motherhood, wifehood and South Africanhood all while being the queen of comedy. Morake made history in 2016 by being the first female to be crowned Comic of the Year at the 6th annual Savannah Comic s Choice Awards and she s not ready to give up that crown just yet. After 10 years in the industry, it s crazy that I have never done a South African tour. Well, the time has finally arrived. The comedy industry in this country has grown so much in terms of offerings and demand. South Africans seem to have an insatiable appetite for it and hopefully I can whet their tastebuds with this new show, says Tumi. Raw and unapologetic, the show promises to be thought provoking and provide a glimpse of what life could be like if we made a little effort putting us all, and herself, under the spotlight. Since beginning her career in 2006, Morake has steadily grown into one of SA s most sought after comedians, with numerous nominations and awards under her belt, including receiving the 2016 YOU Spectacular Award for Best Comedian of the Year. A formidable force in the industry, some highlights of her career include being the first woman to host Comedy Central Presents on African soil and ticking off a bucket list item taking her first one-woman show to the famed Edinburgh Festival in Scotland in 2013. Morake spent two seasons on the judging panel of etv s She s The One and was host of Our Perfect Wedding for a record three seasons. This year sees her hosting her own shows on SABC Red Cake and the second season of Point Of Order. Show Dates: February 25: Silverstar Casino, Krugersdorp March 3: The Boardwalk Casino Ampitheatre, Port Elizabeth March 25: Black Rock Casino, Newscastle March 31 and April 1: The Baxter Theatre, Cape Town April 22: Graceland Casino, Secunda May 6: Caledon Casino, Caledon For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.