Former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe has the backing of the African National Congress (ANC) in Madibeng despite being implicated in former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela report State of Capture , the party said on Tuesday. We fully support Brian Molefe, we are 100% behind him. He is one of our own. He is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law said Papi Ratela, a member of the ANC Youth League provincial executive committee in the North West. Molefe was last week, nominated to be a Member Parliament (MP) on the North West list. The SA Communist Party in the Moses Kotane province (North West) said it was not consulted on the appointment of Molefe as an ANC MP. We learnt about this decision through the media when it first emerged, as if we are not an ally of the ANC, as if we do not share a common alliance electoral platform, as if we have not campaigned together for the ANC to win elections, said provincial chairperson Madoda Sambatha. There was no consultation or engagements with alliance partners, or at least with the SACP as an alliance partner. This pattern of unilateralism was entrenched by the provincial leadership of the ANC since the 2014 general election. The fellows have appropriated to themselves, exclusively, the prerogative to change lists, even without involving the provincial deployment committee. READ MORE: Brian Molefe is a member of the Irene branch, ANC in Tshwane confirms He said ANC provincial chairperson Supra Mahumapelo highlighted the deployment change in his political input at the last ANC provincial executive committee lekgotla but his political input was not open to discussion. Molefe resigned from Eskom late last year in a bid to clear his name after the Public Protector Thuli Madonsela s State of Capture report highlighted his close ties to the controversial Gupta family. Ratela said those who were questioning Molefe s membership at the Oom Gav Mbeki branch in Hartebeespoort Dam in the Madibeng local municipality were external forces against the ANC. Ratela, branch chairperson Bethuel Mmutle, Convener of the Madibeng sub-region John Chawe, provincial executive member and mayor of Madibeng Jostinah Mothibe all confirmed Molefe was a member in good standing at ward 29 (Oom Gov Mbeki branch). Brian Molefe is one of our own, we supported the branch on his nomination, said Chawe. He denied that Molefe s name was imposed on the branch. In the ANC nothing comes from the top, we start at the branch. The leadership brought Molefe membership application forms, from 2011 and 2015. Mmutle said he was the branch secretary when Molefe first applied for membership. I received his application form in 2011, it was paid for five year and he renew it in 2015, he said. Brain Molefe is a member in good standing at Oom Gov Mbeki branch in Hartbeespoort Dam in the Madibeng sub-region. We are privilege to have one of our from the deep rural farming community representing us in the national parliament. We fully support him. The leadership declined to reveal on how far was Molefe s name in the ANC list to parliament in 2014, saying it was an internal matter of the ANC, and called for their colleagues in Gauteng to come with evidence to that Molefe was a member in good standing at Irene branch. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.