South Africa s effort to develop a viable fuel cell manufacturing industry contributing to stimulating economic growth, creating jobs, generating export revenue, and producing cleaner energy is gaining traction, Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said on Sunday. In a statement ahead of a two-day fuel cell bus workshop hosted by the trade and industry department (dti) in partnership with the German government in Cape Town from Monday, he said the purpose of the workshop was to provide a platform where South Africa could learn from the Germans who had successfully rolled out fuel cell buses in various cities. The main focus of South Africa s fuel cell strategy was to develop a globally competitive fuel cell manufacturing industry adding value to South Africa s platinum resources that would drive market growth and ensure long-term sustainability of the country s platinum mining industry. The beneficiation of platinum group metals (PGMs) is a key objective of South Africa s beneficiation strategy. The dti has prioritised fuel cells for pro-active development based on the impact to the country s economic growth. One of the interventions identified in the industrial policy action plan (IPAP) is developing and growing PGMs beneficiation and demand for platinum in SA beyond the current levels through the development of a fuel cell industry, Davies said. The overall goal was to create a sustainable local manufacturing sector for platinum-based fuel cells and its sub-components by beneficiating the PGM minerals through appropriate mechanisms that supported a local and global market. This will result in job creation, attracting new investments; generation of export revenue through manufacture and export of value-added platinum based fuel cells, components, and technologies; skills development; diversification of the current energy mix through production of cleaner energy; and socio-economic upliftment of our people, he said. Various interventions were being put in place to stimulate demand for platinum and to gear up fuel cells as a large scale demand driver. South Africa s focus was on applications in the country and sub-Saharan Africa in stationary, mobile, materials handling, mining equipment, and distributed generation. Last year a steering committee comprising of government, mining houses, local engineering and manufacturing companies, as well as technology providers was established to jointly craft and implement a fuel cell road map for industrialisation in SA, as well as to identify market opportunities and technologies for prioritisation. The importance of collaboration between all spheres of government and industry to create and adopt new markets and technologies for PGMs can never be overemphasised. A number of key projects aligned to the road map are being pursued by the mining companies, technology developers, and government, Davies said. He was hopeful that the fuel cell bus workshop would lead to the introduction of fuel cell buses in major South African cities after learning from the German experience. Germany was one of the leading countries globally in the roll-out of fuel cell buses. African News Agency (ANA)