Acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane on Thursday said he was willing to undergo a lifestyle audit if requested to do so. Briefing Parliament s portfolio committee on police, Phahlane said he had already undergone such an audit. For me to be given a top secret clearance would have meant I would have gone through that process, he said, adding he, will do it again . He also welcomed anybody who wanted to scrutinise his entire career as a policeman. I have no problem with it. I have got a proud track record as member of this service. Phahlane is currently being investigated by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) for allegedly defeating the ends of justice and corruption, something the acting commissioner suggested was part of a smear campaign against him. It has been an onslaught since 2009, the same allegations over and over again. It is tiring that is not at all going to let us lose our focus in doing our work. Phahlane confirmed he was taking legal action against Ipid and those who had allegedly peddled lies about him. He again dismissed allegations that he had many girlfriends and love children with junior officers, one of whom was sitting next to him in the meeting, Brigadier Linda Kleynhans. The two were accused of having a baby together, and having hidden the child somewhere in the Western Cape . READ MORE: Khomotso Phahlane briefs MPs on onslaught against him He joked: If I had a child with the brigadier, the child would be coloured you [MPs] are welcome to come when we go visit our coloured baby. When asked about whether he declared to South African Police Service the sponsorship of a bakkie, the commissioner said he didn t need to as it was not a gift. The vehicle does not belong to me. The vehicle belongs to a dealership and will be returned in 18 months. The lieutenant-general again attacked Paul O Sullivan who had helped the Ipid gather information about Phahlane, suggesting that if a lifestyle audit of the private forensic investigator was done, he may not pass the test . He [O Sullivan] happened to be a suspect. He happened to be in and out of the courts for a number of charges, he said, referring to several charges being levelled at the private investigator, including an immigration offence, treason and espionage. That s not the end of it. He will continue to be before our courts because of his criminal conduct. I m told reliably so honourable chair that I am one of those on the list to be dealt with. Phahlane claims O Sullivan had already drawn a cross though Jackie Selebi , the late former national police commissioner who was convicted on corruption charges. He also indicated he was on that same Hall of Fame list along with Police Minister Nathi Nhleko. When an MP asked whether he trusted Phahlane, the minister said he did not have a problem with an investigation into the acting commissioner as it would help to get to the bottom of the matter. He added that he had already warned Phahlane that if he was guilty of criminal conduct, the minister wouldn t hesitate to act and institute disciplinary steps. Nhleko also questioned O Sullivan s credibility, saying he had been informed that O Sullivan was English. He then played the role of historian, telling MPs foreign forces and colonialists were behind the current instability in the police force. You have a huge foreign interest still trying to control the criminal justice cluster, said Nhleko citing a trend which had developed after South Africa s first post-democracy national police commissioner, George Fivaz, left the service in 2000. Soon after general Fivaz was national commissioner there was a trend of you do not have stability in the Saps. It s an established historical fact, the minister insisted We are seeing a similar kind of stampede and competition on who becomes the next national commissioner and in the process there s a lot of character assassination Nhleko said the country s sovereignty was at stake, as outside forces were plotting to manipulate state institutions, saying the security of the State was being undermined. Again this is a historical fact, they [colonialists] have got to defend their ill-gotten wealth and that s the objective that is advanced using these institutions. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.