Orlando Pirates assistant coach Bradley Carnell and Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane both strongly condemned the fan violence that disrupted Mamelodi Sundowns 6-0 Absa Premiership thrashing of Orlando Pirates at Loftus Stadium, in Pretoria, on Saturday. Both sides are set to have the rule book thrown at them by the Premier Soccer League, after a pitch invasion and ugly clashes between supporters marred Masandawana s stunning win. Pirates fans, upset at their team s horrendous capitulation, began by ripping up television cables from the ground, disrupting SuperSport s coverage of the match, and then invaded the pitch in the 82nd minute. Sundowns fans also ran onto the field and fighting broke out. Players and coaches fled the field and police used teargas to get the unruly fans under control before the game was eventually played to a finish. We understand the fans frustrations, but to storm the pitch and bring people s lives into danger has nothing to do with football, said Carnell. There is a platform to air your views and there must always be a platform, but not there and then. It was a disgrace I must say. It is not called for. It happened in my first game at Wits, when (referee) Errol Sweeney was chased around the field. That led to his retirement. You cannot allow anything that comes between families and their health. Orlando Pirates will hold a press conference this morning and chairperson Irvin Khoza is expected to address the issue. Mosimane has also seen fan violence before when Sundowns played ES Setif in Algeria in a Caf Champions League group match last year. It is unfortunate everybody knows that issues like this should not be condoned. This is what we don t want. We are bringing children to the game, we are bringing in women. It is not nice because we are struggling to fill the stadiums. We are trying to put a good product on the pitch, said Mosimane. The Premier Soccer League (PSL) issued a statement yesterday condemning the acts of hooliganism by some of the fans . The league apologises to all the supporters and stakeholders those who were at the stadium Orlando Pirates fans run amok during the Absa Premiership match between Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates at Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Saturday in Pretoria. Such behaviour at our stadiums is a bad advert for our football, it said. The PSL said it is awaiting reports from various stakeholders on what transpired. Former Orlando Pirates defender Edward Motale said: Security at the game is not up to scratch. We are always complaining that the stadiums are empty, but how are we going to fill them if your life and your child s life is not safe if you bring them to the stadium? news@citizen.co.za