It was perhaps time for Parliament s rule committee to review the use of hard hats and bottled water as weapons in the National Assembly, African National Congress (ANC) chief whip Jackson Mthembu said on Friday. Addressing journalists in Parliament on Thursday night s chaotic state of the nation address characterised by violent scenes which saw Economic Freedom Fighters MPs and the so-called white shirts exchange blows after the former were booted from the house for disrupting President Jacob Zuma s speech, Mthembu said a criminal probe was needed. If hard hats, makarapas are used to assault parliamentary staff and maybe next time other members of Parliament and bottled water as well, that we should take to the rules committee of Parliament , said Mthembu. I think the experience we gained over these few years on the use of markarapas and bottle water as weapons in [the] house needs serious reflection by the House. Mthembu defended Speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairwoman Thandi Modise, saying they exercised exteme restraint before calling in parliamentary security to remove the EFF MPs. Mthembu conceded he was alerted to the presence of armed soldiers in the parliamentary precinct, and would be seeking clarity from Mbete and Modise on how this happened when parties were promised they would only be deployed off premises. Earlier Mthembu also said the actions of Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) MPs during the state of the nation address was a national shame and a national disaster and should be criminally probed. Addressing journalists in Parliament, Mthembu said the chaotic joint sitting of the National Assembly and National Council of Provinces on Thursday night was the clearest indication of the EFF s resoluteness to render Parliament dysfunctional . When a party of few MPs violates the rules and procedures of Parliament at will and even unleashes violence against those tasked with managing and preserving the orderly management of the House, then our national liberty is at stake. This cannot be allowed to continue, said Mthembu. Mthembu called for a criminal investigation into the clashes between EFF MPs and parliamentary security staff, calling it a blatant act of criminality , which ended in damage to property at the legislature. He also suggested a committee of Parliament investigate the conduct of EFF MPs. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.