After an incredibly successful first season, MTV confirmed today that a second season of Lip Sync Battle Africa is heading our way later this year. What s even more exciting is that Pearl Thusi, who is currently in the United States filming Quanitco, will be back as the host. The show, which will be back on the 6th of April 2017, will see well-known personalities and entertainers from across the continent strutting their stuff as they lip sync or mime to well-known songs in a bid to win the famous LSB winner s belt, armed with dancers, wigs, costumes, props and tons of swag! Pearl will be back as the show s host while Denrele will take over from D Banj as the colour commentator , adding his lively observations to the proceedings. Denrele is a phenomenal broadcaster and will add a fantastic element to the show. He has a wide knowledge of pop culture and has interviewed greats such as Akon, Beyonc , Tyler Perry, Lil Kim, Snoop Dogg, and many more. ALSO READ: Bonang finally speaks out about AKA and the breakup The star, who was a contestant on the first season of the show, has made a name for himself in Nigeria for his eccentricity and will add a lot of value to the show. Co-hosting Lip Sync Battle Africa is truly the answer to a prayer I never made! The universe truly opened a door, and I m gonna make sure I jump right inside and do it! It s quite surreal I was a contestant in Series one who flew in last minute and spiritually won his LSB challenge, and now I ve been elevated to co-host! Try not to watch me, I dare you! Commented Monde Twala, Vice President, BET, Youth &amp; Music, Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN) Africa, Pearl and Denrele are going to make an awesome team. Pearl s star quality is unmistakeable and she is a consummate professional, while Denrele s a true original bold, exciting and just on the right side of crazy! His extraordinary energy and total unpredictability should be a fascinating and explosive addition to season 2 of Lip Sync Battle Africa. The second series of Lip Sync Battle Africa premieres on MTV Base on Thursday 6 April 2017 at 21:30 CAT. Tune in. Brought to you by People Magazine