Absa said on Wednesday, it would cooperate with the Competition Tribunal following the Competition Commission s decision to refer a collusion case against several banks for prosecution. The commission referred a collusion case to the tribunal for prosecution against 17 major banks, including South Africa s Absa, Investec and Standard Bank. Absa will continue to cooperate with the commission during the prosecution of this matter. It should be noted that the Competition Commission has not sought any penalties against Absa, the bank said. The commission said it had been investigating a case of price fixing and market allocation in the trading of foreign currency pairs involving the rand since April 2015. In a statement, the commission said it had found that from at least 2007, the banks had a general agreement to collude on prices for bids, offers and bid-offer spreads for the spot trades in relation to currency trading involving US Dollar/Rand currency pair. READ MORE: Competition Commission says major banks colluded, refers them for prosecution The commission also found that the banks manipulated the price of bids and offers through agreements to refrain from trading and creating fictitious bids and offers at particular times. According to the commission, traders of the banks primarily used trading platforms such as the Reuters currency trading platform to carry out their collusive activities. They also used Bloomberg instant messaging system, or chat room, telephone conversation and had meetings to coordinate their bilateral and multilateral collusive trading activities, the Commission said. They assisted each other to reach the desired prices by coordinating trading times. They reached agreements to refrain from trading, taking turns in transacting and by either pulling or holding trading activities on the Reuters currency trading platform. They also created fictitious bids and offers, distorting demand and supply in order to achieve their profit motives. The commission is now seeking an order from the Tribunal declaring that the respondents have contravened the Competition Act. Further, the commission also seeks an order declaring that the banks are liable for the payment of an administrative penalty equal to 10 percent of their annual turnover. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.