The Democratic Alliance on Tuesday said it had submitted a petition to the Emfuleni municipality, south of Johannesburg, to debate service delivery failures by municipality. In a statement, the party said it had submitted a petition to the speaker of the Emfuleni municipality for an urgent debate on what it termed a complete breakdown of service delivery in the municipality and enormous financial losses. The party said it was hoping the petition would be processed and debated in the council before being referred to the premier s office for intervention. DA MP Advocate Hendrik Schmit said Emfuleni faced shortages of vehicles, materials and skilled officials to deliver basic services. This was admitted by the 2016/17 mid-year Audit Report. The municipality s poor record of paying service providers is also keeping outside business from working with the municipality. The municipality has ever-increasing potholes covering its roads, and the Road Department officials complain without the bitumen needed to repair potholes, their hands are tired. Accidents are increasing as roads deteriorate. ALSO READ: Could FF Plus give EFF its first taste of power at Metsimaholo municipality? The Road Department has no paint to refresh and repaint road markings, and the roads of Emfuleni present a risk to motorists who cannot properly drive with roads unmarked. Schmit said added that water and electricity infrastructure had also deteriorated. Last year, over R200 million in clean drinking was lost by Emfuleni, sharply increasing from the year before. Electricity is also being lost as infrastructure fails because it is not maintained. Last year, over R300 million in electricity was lost by Emfuleni, increasing by over R80 million in losses the year before, Schmit added. Schmit also said Gauteng Premier David Makhura had promised to improve service delivery in Emfuleni during his visit in 2015. Assistant manager for stakeholder relations in Emfuleni Dan Manoeli confirmed that the municipality had received the petition on January 28. Manoeli said the request was sent to various departments for confirmation. The DA knows the petition processes are not easy as they involve different departments in the municipality. We are still waiting for responses from these departments, and we will respond to the petition as soon as we get responses, he said. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.