Mike de Kock has won Al Maktoum Challenge Round II three times and the South African trainer has bright prospects of winning the Group 2 event, one of the twin features of the fifth night of this year s Dubai Carni val, again with Lindo Amor, one of two international runners among the nine horses declared for the $200,000 event, run over 1900m event on dirt. The South American import, a new recruit to De Kock, made a pleasing start to his UAE career in the opening leg four weeks ago, staying on nicely in the clos ing stages to finish an excellent third behind Le Bernardin. That was a solid effort as he was enti tled to need the run, returning from a 249-day break. He s open to improvement stepping up in distance today and can provide his trainer with his first victory since Bold Silvano landed the 2011 edition. Le Bernardin, trained by Ali Rashid Al Rayhi, bounced back after a lacklustre comeback in De cember to spring a mild surprise last month, swooping fast and late to beat Long River and Lindo Amor, his fifth victory at Meydan. The eight-year-old, to be ridden by UAE champion Tadhg O Shea, is the best of the home team and clearly sets the standard on form. The runner-up, trained by the in-form Salem bin Ghadayer, nearly pulled off a massive shock that night, but was unable to hold the late challenge of Le Ber nardin. He could be vulnerable over the extra 300m tonight and may struggle to reverse the plac ings with the course specialist Le Bernardin. American import Second Sum mer, representing Doug Watson, is an interesting runner on his local debut. He can boast winning form on dirt in the USA, highlighted by his Grade 2 victory in the Califor nian Stakes. He has to prove his fitness, returning from a lengthy break and doesn t appeal. The Group 3 Al Shindagha Sprint, over 1200m on dirt, has attracted a small but select field, with only six declared after the race was reopened on Monday at the entry stage. Muarrab, winner of the Golden Shaheen in March, can atone for his narrow defeat to Reynaldothewizard in the Duba wi Stakes last month. He paid the price for getting embroiled in a pace meltdown with Desert Force, the pair setting sizzling early frac tions, according to the Trakus data. He can see off Cool Cowboy and Wild Dude, and rates the best bet of the night. The support card, featuring five handicaps, is typically com petitive. De Kock s Sanshaawes, appear ing at his fourth straight Dubai carnival, gets the vote in the 2000m handicap on turf, Race 6. A three-time winner at Meydan, he comes here in good heart, fin ishing a creditable third behind Elhaame three weeks ago, 14 days after posting a solid effort in Listed company on his seasonal debut. Veteran Belgian Bill, a winner at the carnival last winter, rates the biggest threat. He wasn t beat en far in a competitive mile handi cap last month and will strip fitter for the run. Red Galileo will be popular stepping up to 3200m in the stay ing handicap on turf, Race 4. Hail ing from the all-conquering Saeed bin Suroor stable, he overcame a lengthy layoff to score on his Meydan debut last month, when given a canny ride by Christophe Soumillon. He s hard to oppose and should punch his ticket for a tilt at the Dubai Gold Cup on World Cup night later in the sea son.