A man conducting illegal abortions is on the run after law-enforcement officers raided his office, Witbank News reports. The money and pamphlets found on Monday, February 6 at Springbok Street, Tasbet Park. The man was charged with possession of counterfeit currency. The officers received an anonymous tip-off about a man believed to be a fake sangoma claiming to heal diseases and make his clients rich. A police officer called the suspect, believed to be from Nigeria, and booked an appointment, lying that she wanted to do an abortion. They visited his place of work on Monday, February 6, on Springbok Street, Tasbet Park, just behind the post office. It was not for the first time the man has had uninvited guests, as he has been arrested before. When the officers raided the building, the man saw who was looking for him and jumped from the second floor, where his office is located, and ran. READ MORE: Watch: Pastor uses his shoe to &#8216;heal&#8217; woman&#8217;s &#8216;vaginal pimples&#8217; Inside they found money, pamphlets, substances that look like muthi and sangoma-like clothing items. In one of his schemes, it is alleged he tells people they must bring a certain amount of money to him, whereby he puts it into a black suitcase that he closes and, after some time, opens it again, claiming the money will double. In one of his pamphlets it is written: &#8220;Dr Babu [name he operates by] is an experienced healer who checks your problems using water and a mirror. Written there as well is that he offers services such as penis enlargements, abortions, can bring back your lost lover, can get you a job promotion etc.&#8221; He left behind a charcoal Mazda 6, which is believed to be his. It was taken to the Witbank Police Station. Police spokesperson Captain Eddie Hall firmly warns the community to be aware of such people. Do not believe in these kinds of magic powers. Please stop it as you will be scammed of your hard-earned money. Sangomas are not even trained and qualified to do abortions. Stay far away from them. When Phephisile Maseko, the national coordinator of the Traditional Healers Organisation (THO), was contacted for comment it turned out she was sitting in a meeting discussing issues similar to this. The charcoal Mazda 6 that is believed to be the suspect s car. Law Enforcement Officers raided his office situated at Springbok Street, Tasbet Park on Monday, February 6. She said no traditional practitioner was allowed to conduct abortions, as they did not promote killing lives. It is a war we are still fighting, and we will win. We are redrafting the legislature for it to have strong penalties for those that practise under false pretenses, tainting our name and reputation. The suspect has not been found yet, but has been charged with possession of counterfeit currency. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.