The &#8220;Bonny and Clyde of Groblersdal&#8221; were arrested last week after they disappeared for weeks with a vehicle, allegedly without permission, reports the Middelburg Observer. It now appears that &#8220;Bonny&#8221; will have to face the long arm of the law on her own after &#8220;Clyde&#8221; slipped through the net due to there not being enough evidence against him. Dries du Plessis and Joanie Sellar were originally sought by the Groblersdal, Mpumalanga, police after a complaint of using a motor vehicle without permission was opened. A guesthouse owner contacted the Observer after the couple allegedly stayed at his establishment without paying and disappeared overnight. In the room, he found a bag of men&#8217;s clothing and various pornographic DVDs with titles such as Getto Booty 27, Ass Appeal and Extreme Booty. The pornography found in the guesthouse. There was also drugs paraphernalia, including empty plastic bags, glass pipes and a burner. . Broken energy-saving lightbulbs were also found in the room. The pipes are often used to smoke drugs such as tik. Some of the drugs paraphernalia. Sellar was arrested last week in eMalahleni after a hotel opened a case of theft when goods went missing. Du Plessis was tracked down days later in Middelburg. Sellar has in the meantime appeared in court and was granted bail. She was, however, arrested again in court and brought to Groblersdal to appear for the case alleging she used a vehicle without permission. Although Du Plessis was arrested, the state decided to withdraw a case of theft against him during his first court appearance. There was apparently no evidence against him, bar the statement of his co-accused, to link him to the case. He was also not charged for the Groblersdal case because the complainant in that case only accused Sellar. Since then, another person has come forward on condition of anonymity. He claims Du Plessis also disappeared with his car for days without permission. Du Plessis allegedly convinced him not to open a criminal case because it would damage his career as a lawyer. Caxton News Service