The skipper of a Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) service boat is missing after the vessel capsized off-shore of Cape Town harbour on Saturday, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said. NSRI Table Bay duty crew were activated by the TNPA just before noon after the 13.95 metre service launch Troupand capsized about 300 metres off-shore of the harbour breakwater with three crew on board, NSRI Table Bay station commander Quentin Botha said. The sea rescue craft Spirit of Vodacom and Spirit of Day were launched and various other government and private services, including a police dive unit, fire and rescue services dive unit, and a Western Cape emergency medical services (EMS) rescue dive unit, also responded. Crew from the fishing vessel Jin Syi Shiang, that were first on the scene, threw life rings to two survivors, two males believed to be aged in their 50s and believed to be from Cape Town, and both men were rescued onto the TNPA working boat Blue Jay that had responded to assist, Botha said. Both survivors were brought to Jetty 1 at the Victoria and Alfred Basin aboard the Blue Jay where paramedics treated them for shock and non-fatal drowning symptoms. They were then transported to hospital by ER24 ambulance in stable condition and were expected to fully recover. On arrival at the capsized vessel, NSRI Table Bay rescue swimmers were deployed into the water and initiated a search for the only remaining crew member, the skipper, aged 63, from Cape Town, who was reported to be missing. NSRI rescue swimmers conducted a free dive perimeter search and NSRI rescue swimmers were placed on the upturned hull to hear for any feedback while knocking on the upturned hull, but no feedback was received. An anchor line was secured to the vessel by NSRI rescue swimmers to prevent the vessel from drifting. Police divers, fire and rescue services rescue divers, and EMS rescue divers were transported to the scene aboard sea rescue craft and they initiated a scuba dive search. They penetrated the cabins and hull but no sign of the missing man was found. Some areas inside the vessel could not be reached. A police rigid inflatable boat joined the operation, he said. The scuba rescue divers search was then concentrated from the area of where the vessel had drifted to about half a nautical mile off-shore of the breakwater to where the capsize took place and the surrounding areas in the vicinity. No sign of the missing man was found despite an extensive search. The Blue Jay would tow the capsized vessel into port where she would be secured and righted in an ongoing operation and searched further by police. The search and recovery operation was being headed by the police dive unit. Police had opened an investigation and the South African Maritime Safety Authority (Samsa) would investigate the incident, Botha said. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter .