When it&#8217;s summer, we all want to get in shape! Here&#8217;s how you can get the most of your Fitbit and your fitness regime. Summer is here, which means everyone is outdoors more, enjoying the sun and trying to be more active. If you re a Fitbit owner, then you know how much you can be driven to achieve the all-important step goal for the day. But other than just using your Fitbit tracker as is, here are a few tips to help you get more out of it: Fitbit MobileTrack . MobileTrack lets you use the Fitbit app without a Fitbit tracker. It does this by using your phone s sensors to track basic activity data. This includes steps, distance and calories burned. MobileTrack does not monitor floors, sleep, or active minutes. Besides activity tracking, MobileTrack also lets you access other app features: Food tracking Weight tracking Setting fitness goals Adding friends Friends leaderboard Cheering and messaging friends To set up Fitbit MobileTrack you ll need to have the Fitbit app installed on your phone. Once the app is set up, you can set up MobileTrack by following these steps. Select: Account (found in the bottom right hand side of the app) Set Up a Device MobileTrack Turn off All-Day Sync If you want to be able to check your steps on your phone, you can turn on All-Day Sync. With most Fitbits, however, you can check your progress on the band itself. This means that it won t be necessary to drain your phone s battery by using all day sync. If you need to see the information on your phone, you can manually sync your Fitbit with the app. To disable the feature: Open the Fitbit app Select Account Select your device to open its settings and then turn off All-Day Sync. Connect with third-party apps The Fitbit app is pretty much an all-rounder and includes food and water tracking, an activity tracker, weight-loss planning, and much more. The problem is, while it s a bit of a Jack of all trades, it s not the best of any of them. If you ve used other apps for things such as your running or weight loss and food monitoring, then you might be able to continue using them and sync them with the Fitbit app. There are quite a few apps that can work with your Fitbit. You can find them all at fitbit.com/partnership or by selecting the Account tab in the Fitbit app and then tapping on Compatible Apps . Brought to you by CompareGuru