When you look at someone s beautiful dazzling smile, it spreads like an infection and paints a ray of sunshine all over your face. Smile is so universal that even a new born knows it by heart and when the captivating smile is shared, it melts the wall. But it is only possible when you have healthy and white teeth. Cosmetic dentistry, a branch of dentistry dealing with the appearance of your teeth, handles the modification of your smile and anything having to do with how your teeth and gums look the length, shape, colour, alignment and proportion. But for me it s about obtaining the most beautiful and long-lasting improvement in the appearance of someone s smile with the minimal amount of treatment. The primary aim of cosmetic dentistry is to improve the aesthetics of a person s teeth, gums or bite. There are varieties of cosmetic procedures available that are appealing to many people. The most popular procedure is tooth-whitening in which teeth are bleached to remove stains and appear brighter. Other cosmetic dental procedures available to help you achieve your perfect smile are:-.A smile makeover typically involves one or more cosmetic dentistry procedures such as dental veneers, dental implants, gingival sculpting and teeth whitening to give you the look you ve always wanted.Full mouth reconstruction offers natural-looking and clinically sound treatments to correct functional problems with your bite, muscles, teeth and bone structure. First impression is the last impression and everyone is becoming more self-conscious of their teeth, especially when they have chipped, discoloured, deformed, crooked or are missing. They may feel the need to cover their mouth every time they laugh and tend not to smile with their teeth in photos. Apart from affecting a person s self-confidence, it can also affect a person s oral health particularly if chipped or missing teeth are left untreated. The good thing is that most of these issues can be resolved and treated or at least worked out to get better than what it was before. I believe there are always one or more treatment options available for any dental issues at an affordable cost. Depending on the complexity and severity of the problem, referral to dental specialists may be necessary. Ask your dentist or oral health professional for further details. Always remember to get dental health checkup and oral prophylaxis (scaling) of your teeth every six months to keep your teeth and oral health in good shape and also to check the condition of the treatment already taken.