The gloom in the sky in the past days makes most of us wish to stay in bed longer, and early mornings are especially hard for children who have to ready themselves for school, but this was not the case on Thursday, February 23, Rising Sun Lenesia reports. Alcohol was found at the house. A bunch of some 32 schoolchildren decided they wanted to, instead, booze and groove, as opposed to going to school. The learners from different schools in and around Lenasia were busted during a house party in Lenasia Extension 13 s Fawn Street. They were from Topaz Secondary School, Nirvana Secondary School, Lenasia Secondary School, Kliptown High School and a school in Soweto. CPF members were alerted to the housa when one of its members heard loud music and screaming. I heard them going on and knew right away this was another housa , the CPF member said. READ MORE: Boksburg High School learners filmed fighting While some of the children were found drinking and dancing in the sitting room, a few were found in compromising positions in the homes main bedroom. Police were called to the scene and escorted the learners to the police stations. A teacher from one of the schools also collected his learners. A hookah pipe and alcohol were found in the house while some of the children were evidently intoxicated. One of the children could barely walk out of the house. Community members condemned the party saying the children should be at school. Hookah Pipe and alcohol was found at the house. We strive so hard for our children to go to school, instead they are here, said resident and parent Ismail. Another resident reiterated Ismail s views, saying they did not want any house parties in Fawn Street. This started on Valentines Day, but we did nothing about it, as we are afraid to tell the children s parents, said a neighbour, who seemed pleased that the learners were caught in the act. The learners will be released in the care of their parents. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.