Mara. There is a saying that goes Age is nothing, but a number. There is also another, which says Education has no limits. It all takes one s desire to achieve what one wants regardless of one s age.The above sayings describe better Mr Nyamohanga Gesabo, 78, who has decided to join Standard One at Makero Primary School in Tarime District, Mara Region.A villager from Kebeyo in Mbogi Ward in Tarime, Mr Gesabo is the father of four children: Matiko, Chacha, Mwita and Mary. He says he has decided to join primary education to cope with change, which is taking place at his village and in the world. Every day a person wakes up with a new idea on how to prosper and tackle life challenges. I have found out that going to school is necessary to enable me to do this, he said.He says he has been getting losses in his banana business because he is not able to read and count. He says several times he has been returning extra money to customers, who, according to him, never inform nor give back the extra change he gives them because of ignorance. I have been longing for getting a chance throughout my life, but it was not possible because I had children, who depended on me and my target was that after they grew up and take care of themselves I would get an opportunity to go to school. My dream has come true, he said.The humble man began his seven-year journey last month at Makero Primary School.He says he feels no difference, when mingling with his fellow pupils, who are of the age of his grandchildren. I am comfortable here. I am sure the government will let me complete my studies and get a certificate to show that I am a learned man, he said.According to the head teacher of Makerero Primary School, Ms Lizy Njiiki, when the old man went to the school and explained what he wanted to do, she had to admit him. At the beginning I thought he was confused, but I had to accept his request because he seemed so serious and anxious to sit in a classroom, she explained.Mr Gesabo s schooling reflects millions of people s, who dreamt to get formal education, but failed because of various reasons. He wears no uniform.Ms Margaret Albinus, a Standard One teacher, says the old man has been obedient in class since he joined the school some weeks ago and he has been attending classes without missing any. He does not react negatively even when he is punished like other pupils. He just accepts the situation and does what is supposed to be done, she said.Ms Albinus said, when she asked him the reason for studying with children of the age of his grandchildren he said: I am a businessman, who has not been gaining anything from my banana business at a roadside. People come in a group, eat my bananas and give me very little money. I often I return to them more money and they never give it back to me because I don t know how to count, he said.This was among the reasons, which made him decide to go school for he knows knowledge is power .Makerero Primary School has 126 pupils, whereas 58 of them are in a nursery school. In Standard One, there are 68 pupils. The school is new. It was opened on December 31.His fellow pupils say, when they are free, he gives them good advice on how to be good children and respect parents and elders and even their peers. Work hard so that you may realise your dreams. During my youth, the best I could do was to look after my father s cows and milk them in the evening. I had no chance to go to school like you do, he told them.According to Tarime district education officer Emmanuel Johnson, the old man will be in school under an informal syllabus (Mkemwa). He says even if he manages to pass the Standard Seven exams, he will not be able to join secondary school due to his age. There is a syllabus that is not formal to anyone, who missed education and this can help them get basic education without going to class. The people, who close to Mt Gesabo, including his wife Wegesa, say nobody advised him to join school, but decided on his own and nobody had a reason to advise him to change his plans. He has joined school at old age. Even if he acquires knowledge, he will not apply it anywhere because even some of his grandchildren are old now, his wife said.Villagers from Kebeyo, Mr Christopher Chacha 69 and Bhoke Ghati 57, where the old man comes from say he is just pleasing himself because time is out. We think maybe he is not right psychologically or he has another agenda, which is known to us, one of them said. He noted that it was better for him to do other things at the village rather than wasting time.