The world is an interesting place full of weird beliefs and fears, which are often the remnants of the generations that came before us. Where do superstitions start? Sometimes I think our forefathers were just bored and turned urban legends and myths into stories that became part of the national psyche. After all, there was no way to authenticate a story like we can. South Africa has its fair share of superstitions, depending on the culture and creed you are from. There s the belief of tokoloshes, those pesky little goblins that will chase after you while you try to sleep. When I was younger there was the myth circulating that you dare not got to the bathroom alone because Pinky Pinky will get you. A man supposedly in a pink suit that was harassing kids. A family member would freak out when there was a lightning and thunderstorm and she was wearing red, because she thought the lightning would strike her. Why, who knows? Superstitions are the quirks that make a long trip even the more interesting. In Brazil, for instance, it s believed that your fortune for the year is determined by the colour you wear on New Year s Eve. White is considered the best colour to wear because it will bring you good luck in the year that lies ahead. Germans don t believe in saying cheers with a glass of water and make it a point of looking in your eyes when they do. If it s superstitions you re looking for, then South Korea has them in abundance. One of the funniest ones for me was fan death. For some reason there is a belief that you shouldn t have a fan on in a closed room with unopened windows because it will destroy the oxygen in the air and lead to suffocation. If you really want to see a Korean freak out, go ahead and write their name in red. It is said the red represents blood and means you are dooming that person to an untimely death. I also got used to some buildings not having a 13th floor. In Chinese buildings you will often find the fourth floor missing because the words death and four sound similar in Chinese. Don t ever put your feet on tables and stand on things in Thailand. It is considered incredibly rude. Doing a stint as a PE teacher I had the unfortunate experience of prompting children to play leap frog which ended in tears because you absolutely don t touch someone on the head in Thailand. The head is considered sacred. Initially I thought it was because the kids didn t like sports! The head case (excuse the pun) is the same in Vietnam. The Vietnamese also consult fortune tellers to give them specific dates they should be married for a prosperous relationship. Sometimes you can get away with feigning the cultural norm when it comes to certain superstitions. If you d rather not get strange side glances while travelling, perhaps taking five minutes to do a quick search on the cultural norms is worth it. For assimilation s sake. Dustin Jordan | Image: Supplied For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.