Former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe is set to become a Member of Parliament (MP), it was announced on Friday. According to a tweet by City Press reporter Andi Makinana, Parliament confirmed the news, saying Molefe was set to be sworn in as an MP. This follows recent reports of plans in place to promote Molefe and make him the new finance minister, replacing Pravin Gordhan. The Sunday Times reported almost a month ago that the North West would push for Molefe to be appointed MP. This was to set the tone for him to take over Gordhan&#8217;s role as finance minister. From time to time we review lists and asses our strengths and weaknesses. Brian is a citizen of this country and a resident of our province. Him having announced his exit from Eskom and so excellently executed his mandate, we are of the view that he, and other cadres we are engaging, can contribute immensely to the strengthening and deepening of democracy in our province, said North West provincial secretary Dakota Legoete. Another senior level source in the ANC said Molefe&#8217;s skills were needed in parliament. &nbsp; BREAKING: Parliament confirms that Brian Molefe will be sworn-in as an MP. &mdash; Scapegoat (@AndiMakinana) February 17, 2017 The Democratic Alliance was scathing of Molefe s entry into politics. Brian Molefe should never be an MP. He is an ethically compromised Zupta buddy with corruption clouds hanging over his head, said DA chief whip John Steenhuisen. This adds credence to the idea that Molefe has his eyes on the finance portfolio, and that a Cabinet reshuffle is imminent, just days before Pravin Gordhan is due to present the budget. He said the nomination confirmed that the ANC did not care about fighting corruption. In fact, it seems you are more likely to rise in the ANC ranks if you are accused of corruption. The DA laid criminal charges against Molefe after the release of Madonsela s report. Additional reporting by African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.