Dar es Salaam. On Sunday, President John Magufuli once again rallied the nation behind the current war on drugs.It was the second time in a few days that he publicly weighed in on the anti-narcotics campaign whose tempo was set a fortnight ago by Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda.Opinion has since been largely divided between those supporting the new crackdown saying it was long overdue, and those against the controversial methods being used to nail suspects.In the opposition, there is anger and cynicism ever since Chadema chairman Freeman Mbowe was named among the high-profile figures who were called for questioning over alleged links to illicit drugs trade and abuse.It s not the first time that Tanzania is embarking on what appears to be an all-out war against the trading and consumption of illicit drugs. So why has the latest crackdown sparked such mercurial outbursts of anger and admiration in an almost equal measure?A few months after he assumed power, then-President Jakaya Kikwete, showed some sense of commitment, will and capacity to confront the multibillion shillings menace that has earned Tanzania a bad reputation as a major conduit of illicit drugs. In 2006, a year into his presidency, Mr Kikwete declared war against illicit drug trafficking and abuse in a speech that was roundly applauded during a special meeting with elders, civil society institutions and political leaders in the Lake Zone.But his administration said it would not make a song and dance over it in public defying pressure from the opposition and religious leaders to release the names of at least 100 drug barons that the presidency had in its possession.Amid pressure to show some sincerity over the matter, the then minister of State in Prime Minister s Office (Policy and Parliamentary Affairs), Mr Philip Marmo, said Mr Kikwete had formed a task force comprising officials from Tanzania Intelligence Services, Tanzania Revenue Authority, the police force and the Drug Control Commission to deal with the matter.Name and shame approachYet opposition politicians and analysts said that his failure to make public the drug barons demonstrated lack of political will to deal with the matter.Mr Salva Rweyemamu, then head of the Directorate of Communications at State House, said the government was winning the battle over drugs, but it just was not going into overdrive about it in public. At some point, though, he indicated that gathering evidence against the traffickers was a problem.Apparently, Mr Kikwete himself would have none of the name and shame approach clearly he was against engaging the overdrive gear in 2011 he told religious leaders pressing him to release the sensitive list to go to the courts, and get the names from there. If one wants the names of the clerics, one should go to courts of law where they have been charged. There is no secrecy in courts, and their names can be obtained there, he told the Idd-ul-Fitr Baraza in Dodoma. In making sure that we win the war on drugs, let s not start pointing accusing fingers at one another Time will come when even churches and mosques will be subjected to searches. It s a path that the immediate past government chose to tread carefully.Fast forward, the war on drugs has taken a fresh twist.A fortnight ago, the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner pulled the trigger to re-launch the drug war coming out to the public with a list of celebrities and 12 police officers accused of having links to drug abuse and trade.That list included former Miss Tanzania Wema Sepetu, singer Khalid Mohammed alias TID, Dogo Hamidu and Babuu wa KItaa. In the following days, the RC released more names, this time with high-profile figures including Mr Mbowe, who has since refused to report for questioning at the Central Police Station saying the RC has no legal authority to do what he was doing.Businessman Yusuf Manji and Bishop Josephat Gwajima also appeared in the list of people that Mr Makonda told to the report for questioning last Friday.The opposition has hit back against allegations that its leader is involved in a drug trafficking ring, calling them unfair and a smear campaign . The country is not governed properly. It is unfair to accuse a reputable person of drug trafficking without any shred of evidence, Mr Mbowe said. This matter will end up injuring innocent people s reputations. Information minister Nape Nnauye was the first senior government official to publicly raise his concerns over the crackdown. He urged caution, appealing for ways of assisting victims of the illicit trade. This matter has sparked public debate especially on how the artistes have been handled. I am not here to say whether the authorities are right or wrong. I will leave it to the public to judge. One thing is clear though: Most of those listed are victims of drug abuse, he said.Political ployChadema s secretary general Vincent Mashinji slammed the accusations, saying: This is a smear campaign. We deny this political ploy, Mr Mashinji told reporters. The people in power just want to silence dissidents so they can do whatever they want. Mr Zitto Kabwe, leader of the Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT), said the whole crackdown smacks of politics of slander .He said: If we let this go without criticism... all opposition members will be accused of drug trafficking. In an interview with The Citizen, a law lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, Dr Onesmo Kyauke, said the RC s campaign has been tainted by its political overtones. I see nothing more than unnecessary tarnishing of names of certain people, he said. This is a national drive but you have noticed that Home Affairs minister, the Inspector General of Police or the DCI are somehow sidelined. Have you asked yourself why they are taking a back seat in this campaign? The anger in the opposition over the new drug war is a no-brainer. The fact that there is no love lost between President Magufuli and his critics in the opposition, notwithstanding, questions have been raised over the past few days about the role of the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner in this campaign.In his first church service after being released from the police Sunday, Bishop Gwajima of the Glory of Christ Tanzania Church, likened the RC to an unguided missile that can land anywhere .But it s not so for the opposition.On the contrary, members of the opposition have suggested that Mr Makonda is the President s blue-eyed boy, one with a clear mission in a bigger plot to annihilate them.They say his vigorous campaign against drugs is a veiled attempt at tarnishing the image of senior opposition politics. Posterity will tell.Interestingly, the RC has also ruffled feathers in the ruling party. MPs from within CCM joined hands with their opposition colleagues last week to blast Mr Makonda for undermining Parliament. They have since resolved to call him to explain himself before the National Assembly.But in throwing his weight behind the war on drugs, President Magufuli dismissed the suspicion that has shrouded the campaign warning that the net would also close in on ruling party members who are caught on the wrong side of the law.He also sought to dismiss criticism that the whole campaign is aimed at the opposition, or those perceived to be against his administration. If you are a CCM leader and are caught with drugs, it does not mean that it is CCM that was involved. Every individual will carry their own burden. It s not about your affiliation or position, he said Sunday.