The defence lawyers for siblings Ibrahim and Fatima Patel on Wednesday stressed that their clients were not linked to terror-accused twins Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie nor Islamic State (ISIS) terror group, as has been previously reported. The trial against the siblings is set to start next month at the Kagiso Magistrates Court. During proceedings on Wednesday, prosecutor Jacob Maswanganye said the state and defence had been unable to agree on a proposed plea agreement. This meant the case would go to trial. A stun grenade and 20 rounds of ammunition were allegedly found in their house in Azaadville, on the West Rand, during a raid on July 9, 2016. They were charged with violating the Explosives Act and Firearms Control Act and released on R5 000 bail each. After court adjourned the defence counsel for both siblings said that they did not know where the terror accusations came from. Earlier, defence advocate James Grant for Ibrahim Patel, told the court that charges against his client had been amended, and they had only just been notified. Photographs had also surfaced that they had been unaware of and for this reason they could not immediately proceed with the trial. He added the possibility of a plea agreement still had to be discussed with his client. Earlier, Maswanganye told the court that the state was ready to proceed, and all the witnesses were present except one. Defence lawyer Nadim Muhammad, acting for Fatima Patel, said information was still outstanding and he too needed more time to consult with her about the plea agreement proposal. Maswanganye said the state would withdraw the charges against one of the siblings if the other pleaded guilty. Both defence lawyers said they needed more time to discuss the plea agreement with the siblings. Magistrate Stanley Mkhari argued there had been enough time for the defence counsels of both the siblings to discuss which one of them would be pleading guilty. The trial is expected to start on March 23. The siblings bail of R5 000 each was extended. -African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.