We have seen some sizzling perfor mances at this year s Dubai Car nival but none better than Ertijaal s course re cord-breaking display over the 1000m Meydan track last week. If there is a better sprinter in the world on turf just now then I ve not seen him. Ertijaal was just a horse when trained at Newmarket, beating only one home in Night of Thun der s 2000 Guineas, but since be ing switched back sprinting un der the guidance of local trainer Ali Al Raihe he has proved a rev elation, winning six of his seven races with his one defeat coming at the hands of Aussie speedball Buffering in last year s Grade 1 Al Quoz Sprint on World Cup Night. Having witnessed Ertijaal destroy a strong Group 3 field, I suggest you seek out the biggest betting boots you have for the big night on 25 March, because he has to be a banker to go one better than last year. Clocking an impressive 55.90s, Ertijaal, whose rating is now up to 119, revived memories of his sire, Oasis Dream, who had similar electric pace, and when this colt gets into a rhythm he seems to be taking one stride to everyone else s two. Jockey Jim Crowley said: Erti jaal is an aeroplane, and, while he will have to contend with tougher international rivals next month, he is as good a sprinter as I ve rid den and it will take a hell of a good horse to get him off the bridle early on. I know that they have upped the distance of the Al Quoz to 1200m this year, but Ali insists Ertijaal is a better horse than he was 12 months ago and, in any event, he has a couple of wins over 1400m on his CV so I don t see the longer trip being a problem. Another ex-European who is taking Meydan by storm is Cham pionship, who clinched his place in the Dubai Turf field when also beating the clock in the Grade 2 Zabeel Mile. Only a decent handicapper in the UK when trained by Richard Hannon, Championship has made phenomenal improvement under Ahmed bin Harmash, and the offi cial assessor raised his mark to 117 after he made mincemeat of his ri vals with a career-best effort. Beating the previous best time of dual Zabeel Mile winner Safety Check under a 1.5kg pen alty was no mean performance, and, though Championship is un proven at the Turf trip of 1800m, jockey Colm O Donoghue is opti mistic he will have the necessary stamina for the longer trip. He said: Ali has done a bril liant job with Championship, who has a great attitude and a terrific turn of foot. I was briefly in a pocket early in the straight, but he is a big, robust colt who can handle him self so I was always confident we would get out of the hole. Obviously, we are going to come up against a superstar in Japan s Real Steel, who is defend ing his crown, but Championship is getting better and better and he relaxes so well that he gives him self every chance of staying the longer trip. Godolphin s Cape Verdi hero ine Very Special looked anything but when beaten into fourth place when starting odds-on for the Grade 2 Balanchine, won by Mick Channon s Opal Tiara, who had finished behind the favourite here three weeks ago. Channon, however, was not surprised at the reversal in form and said: Opal Tiara is a genuine and very talented filly and Oisin (Murphy) blamed himself for the Cape Verdi, in which she got stuck on the inside. She needs daylight to be seen at her most effective and she re sponds to a few smacks, but she also stays well so we ll give it a go and take on the boys in the Dubai Turf on World Cup Night. The Turf is developing into one of the hottest races of the evening, with the Aga Khan s Zarak en hancing his claims when winning the Grade 3 Dubai Millennium last week. Christophe Soumillon was im pressed and said: Zarak might get 2400m this time next year, but for now he is more about speed than stamina so it makes sense to head for the Turf rather than the Sheema Classic. The Aga might have more to celebrate at Meydan tomorrow when his Dubai Gold Cup winner VAZIRABAD takes the first steps towards retaining his crown with his seasonal reappearance in the Grade 3 Nad Al Sheba Trophy. It s a competitive race, but Vazirabad is a proper Group 1 stayer, and, though absent since winning the Prix Royal Oak at Saint-Cloud last October, he has been working well since he ar rived back in Dubai and should have too much class for his rivals. The UAE Oaks looks a weak renewal, and, though Saudi Ara bian raider Nashmia showed all the right qualities when winning the UAE 1000 Guineas, over this longer trip she might be pushed to confirm the form with Doug Wat son s COMPLIMENTI, who was doing her best work at the finish in fourth place and will be better served by this extra 300 metres. Godolphin, who were brought down to earth with a bang last week, mount a strong three-pronged attack in the Grade 3 Meydan Classic, and pick of the trio looks to be UAE 2000 Guin eas winner FLY AT DAWN, who should be even more effective back on turf. Sheikh Hamdan s MUTA KAYYEF has his prep-race for World Cup Night in the Grade 3 Winter Derby at Lingfield on Sat urday, and, though it will be his first time on Polytrack, he works on the surface every morning in Newmarket so it should not prove a problem. Mutakayyef showed himself a class performer last season, win ning the Summer Mile at Ascot and later finishing a close third to US superstar Tepin in the Wood bine Mile in Toronto. He has never finished out of the first three in 14 races and this is his dress-re hearsal for the Dubai Turf, and, though Grendisar and Battalion have the course form, they have never come up against a colt like Mutakayyef. Finally, in Qatar this weekend, the $1-million Emir s Trophy has attracted a strong field, and, while German challenger Noor Al Hawa looked good when winning the Qatar Derby and is proven on the track, over this longer distance I much prefer Sir Michael Stoute s UK raider ARAB SPRING, who will be spot on after his recent warm-up at Lingfield. Arab Spring will be a top mid dle-distance horse this summer, and with Frankie Dettori more familiar with the Doha track than Ryan Moore, Stoute has booked the Italian for the ride.