Former public protector Thuli Madonsela&#8217;s new foundation released a statement on Friday evening saying she would pay R470 000 for the car that was damaged by her son years ago, and was allegedly used for longer than allowed. She maintained that she did not actually owe the money, but her &#8220;moral compass&#8221; would be compromised if she became an echo of people who were against her. &#8220;Our moral compass is compromised when we forget that we are not echoes of those that are against us or appear to be so. Those of us who believe in a better world must be the first to do what we believe is right or needs to be done to achieve such a world she said. Her foundation said: In a letter dated and sent on 10 February 2017 Adv Madonsela has also withdrawn her objection for being charged for VIP protection services during the off duty period determined by the SAPS VIP unit to end on 30 November 2016. She has also expressed gratitude for [the] statement issued by the Auditor General confirming her long-standing assertion that the car repair matter was the subject of an audit query it said. She remains convinced that the law is on her side regarding both the merits of the case and administrative justice implications of the Public Protector process. She said the manner in which the matter had been publicly handled had been &#8220;regrettable&#8221; and she could have done so better. She had fired back at her successor, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, last week, accusing her of not being honest about their relationship and her liabilities for her state-provided BMW. She had denied needing to pay about R450 000 for repairs to the X5 and that she had used it for longer than allowed. I ve maintained silence because I believe that s a proper thing to do but it s not true that I still have to pay the money for the car or that I abused any car she told the newspaper. She said she hoped her payment and apology would put the matter in the past so that she continue with her work as an activist dedicated to empowering people and deepening democracy.