Matric may well be done and dusted, but for many the answer to what studies to pursue further is still hanging in the air. Making choices about tertiary education can feel a lot like standing on the proverbial edge of a cliff. Few have truly identified their vocation when they leave school. Yet, for those aspiring to tertiary education, to decide on an invariably costly course that is supposed to lead to a career may turn out to fulfil or oppress their dreams. The stakes certainly couldn t be higher. It helps to take a step back from the edge of the cliff to get a perspective of the broader range of options available and decide what s best with a cooler head. Here are some tips for matrics considering a tertiary education: Students should consider programmes that would enable them to explore, discover, change and grow into the leaders and change-makers they aspire to be. This takes away the fear of getting stuck in something you really don t want to pursue. Choosing a tertiary education is much more than choosing a path to a career. It s about selecting a formative experience with the power to shape and transform you as you mature. It can provide you with so much more than just a qualification and some capabilities to get a job in a particular field. Last year was volatile for students, and there s obviously uncertainty and nervousness about what lies ahead this year on campuses. Many matrics are exploring options further afield, especially because there are a growing number of reputable international institutions, such as Minerva Schools, facilitating funding opportunities that place an extraordinary global education within their reach. Today, it is possible for high achievers and driven students to meet their educational aspirations at an affordable cost on a world stage. While local tertiary institutions open early in the year, prompting those who are still undecided to think of gap years, global universities, such as Minerva, open seven to eight months after they have finished matric. This means matrics can enjoy some gap time while taking on meaningful community service projects and internships, or travel, before they apply at an international institution in August or September. Our world has changed and more and more young people are realising that the path their parents walked may not be for them. Many yearn for an educational experience that transcends the norm and breaks tradition with current universities. In contrast to traditional education, young people are increasingly drawn to modern options where they can gain an experience of the world, as well as a degree. Minerva offers an undergraduate programme that combines the four-year study of accredited degrees with travel across seven of the world s most vibrant cities. Certain tertiary institutions, while highly accessible in terms of admissions and affordability, are looking to connect with global leaders. Millennials have a reputation for wanting to make an impact. Your choice of study becomes less about what box you are going to choose and all about what difference you want to make to the world. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.