If there was racing for disabled horses Power Grid would now be on the shortlist for next month s Equus Awards. The Andries Steyn-trained three-year-old throws out his off-hind at an unnatural angle and, when he gallops, the end of it swings loose as if it was broken at the fetlock joint. Yet he took his score to three wins from nine starts when beating two class acts in a Pinnacle Stakes at Kenilworth. Mike Barnard at Daytona rang me one day to say, if I wanted him, I could have him, Steyn related. He was going to be put down and I got him almost from the grave. Andrew Brand, Surina de Villiers and my wife, Jennifer, took on the ownership but when the physiotherapist first looked at his leg there was no muscle on it. She said one side was like cement and the other like jelly. Every time I took him to work at Durbanville the jockeys said he was leaning this way and that, but one day Lucien Africa got on him and said this thing can go . I now never gallop the horse and that s why he needs a run to come right but the moment the rains arrive he is a few lengths better. Anthony Andrews had the mount on Saturday and after the first 200m, went to the front. For a few anxious moments the 12-1 chance looked like throwing it away as Tevez and hot favourite Silicone Valley tried to come up his inside but Andrews quickly got him back on an even keel and the race was his, despite a stipes review. I thought I would give him a chance but they were going so slowly, he related, before adding drily: I didn t realise there would be two of them brave enough to come up the inside. &#8220;But my horse would have won away. Andrews, who was given an official warning to take more care, has had a frustrating and at times demoralising season, often sitting in the weighing room wondering why trainers were not making more use of his talents. But seemingly things are about to change because he also won the previous race on Dalibhunga for Andre Nel. Anthony rode a superb race, doing exactly what I asked and sitting still on the horse, said Sabine Plattner s trainer. He is now riding work for us. This was only his second race-ride for the stable and he has won on both of them. I will let him keep the rides. Gold Circle Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.