Cancer 22 June 23 July Can-do planet Mars encourages you to be more proactive and up-to-date about your financial portfolio. So do your best to find dynamic new ways to curb spending and boost cash flow. Leo 24 July 23 August Mars shifts into your sign until September 5. So strive to be even more flamboyant than usual as you initiate ideas, launch passion projects and make progress in dynamic new directions. Virgo 24 August 23 September Mighty Mars highlights your imaginative, intuitive and introspective sides. So make sure you channel your Virgo energy into creative projects or spiritual pursuits, like yoga or meditation. Libra 24 September 23 October Group activities, social media and networking are activated by dynamic Mars. So it s a terrific time to connect with creative people and share your personal dreams with friends. Scorpio 24 October 22 November You ll be in the public eye in some way as proactive Mars races through your professional and reputation zone until September 5. So make sure you re putting on a spectacular show. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Action planet Mars activates your adventure zone. So start thinking about where you ll go for your next holiday. Choose a dynamic location that has activities that get your adrenalin going. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Passion-planet Mars revs up your mojo as it stimulates your sexuality zone until September 5. With your lusty libido set to increase, find suitably sensual outlets for your earthy sex drive. Aquarius 21 January 19 February Dynamic Mars encourages you to spend more time nurturing close relationships in positive and proactive ways. Singles if you see someone you fancy, then you ll have to make the first move. Pisces 20 February 20 March Jump off the comfy couch and get your body moving. Mars encourages you to be proactive about improving your health and fitness via a more nutritious diet and dynamic exercise routine. Aries 21 March 20 April It s time to express yourself as you feel the love and tap into the creative child within. Over the next few weeks, aim to express your inner muse in romantic, artistic and boldly beautiful ways. Taurus 21 April 21 May Shake up your usual routine. Between now and September 5, dynamic Mars encourages you to be much more proactive about domestic matters, family relationships and household chores. Gemini 22 May 21 June Mighty Mars moves through your communication zone until September 5. So, motivation is high as you initiate creative ideas and get your message out to the world, in person and online.