The Stormers survived some anxious moments to record an entertaining but error-strewn 40-34 win over the Cheetahs in Bloemfontein on Saturday. In terms of log positions it didn&#8217;t matter much but with the play-offs looming, the Capetonians at least have some confidence. Who was the star in this match? Forget about Cheslin Kolbe&#8217;s hat-trick of tries. That was just a reminder of what a good finisher he can be. Instead, his goalkicking was vital in this game. It wasn&#8217;t perfect at all but it was solid enough to ensure the Stormers&#8217; pressure was converted into points. After all, he didn&#8217;t ask for that responsibility after first-choice goalkicker SP Marais was injured. Key themes and moments If there was one sequence of events that summed up the generally poor standard of the game, it was the red cards shown to both sides in injury time. Cheetahs flanker Henco Venter struck his direct opponent Rynhardt Elstadt in the face with his elbow. That on it&#8217;s own warranted a sending-off. But Elstadt couldn&#8217;t keep himself from retaliating. In terms of the result, it was Cheetahs flyhalf Niel Marais&#8217; sin binning for a cynical professional foul that really cost the hosts. In his absence, the Stormers scored 14 points as Kolbe firstly rounded off a sweeping backline move before replacement Seabelo Senatla pounced on a stray pass to score an intercept try. With both sides not having much riding on this game, defence was hardly a priority and there was precious little evidence of coherence. But at least the Stormers delivered enough bursts to gain a morale-boosting win. It was the same story for the Cheetahs as before. They generally played catch-up but also showed guts and fine attacking skill to lead 34-33 with 8 minutes left. Yet their concentration faltered again and they tried to rush too many attacking movements. It keeps derailing them. The Stormers&#8217; backline depth could be in trouble as centre Juan de Jongh and fullback SP Marais both left the field with injuries in the first half. Point scorers Cheetahs &#8211; Tries: Reniel Hugo, Elandre Huggett, Clinton Swart, Raymond Rhule. Conversions: Niel Marais (4). Penalties: Marais (2). Stormers &#8211; Tries: Cheslin Kolbe (3), Damian Willemse, Seabelo Senatla, Sikhumbuzo Notshe. Conversions: Kolbe (4), SP Marais. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Would you like to place a rugby bet? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.