Treatment Action Campaign (TAC) has distanced itself from the people who disrupted Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi s speech on Wednesday during the funeral of HIV and gender activist Prudence Mabele. A group of about 20 HIV activists disrupted Motsoaledi during his speech twice by breaking into song. They later walked out when Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa took to the podium. Mabele, who was the founder and executive director of Positive Women s Network, succumbed to pneumonia at the age of 46 in a Rosebank hospital in Johannesburg last week. She broke ground in 1992 when she publicly revealed her HIV-positive status. Mabele s funeral service was held at Rhema Bible Church in Randburg, and she was laid to rest at Westpark Cemetery. Motsoaledi had issued a warning to HIV activists that the battle has not been won , saying that government, the private sector and civil society must continue to work together to not fail young people. Andrew Mosane, an HIV activist and a member of the TAC who took part in the walkout later, said he and his colleagues felt disrespected by Motsoaledi. People felt that the minister was disrespecting them. Instead of introducing the deputy president, the minister kept on giving us statistics which are not even interesting, Mosane said. People are still dying of TB and pneumonia, mere opportunistic infections that are supposed to be treated. Prudence succumbed to it because the health system in South Africa is failing. So we walked out because the minister did the opposite of what we wanted him to do. If it was my funeral, she would have done the same. However, TAC general secretary Anele Yawa said the organisation did not condone the disruptions and subsequent walkout. TAC would like to state that he was not representing TAC in taking this action and was acting in his own capacity, said Yawa in a statement. TAC was attending comrade Pru s funeral to pay tribute to our comrade and friend with dignity and respect. We pledge to continue the fight against HIV and TB in her honour. Yawa said TAC s highest decision-making body between congresses would be meeting to decide on action to take regarding the disruptions. On Friday, TAC s National Council will be holding an urgent meeting in which the matter of the disruption will be discussed and action taken, Yawa said. African News Agency (ANA)