There are some favourites with decent possibilities at the Vaal today and a Pick 6 could be the way to go. There could be a banker in the opening leg, a Maiden Plate over 1400m, where Tyrone Zackey sends out Gonnafly. The two-year- old Crusade colt has only raced three times and looks to be getting better with every run. He will be ridden by Craig Zackey who sees this colt as probably my best ride on the day . He s on the up, he does have a bit of class about him, said the jockey yesterday. The penny hasn t quite dropped, but he is learning and is getting much sharper. I make him a big runner. Originally I would have been happier had the race been over 1600m but last time he did well over this distance so I m quite happy with this 1400m. The danger looks to be Sean Tarry-trained Imperial Ounce who is having his second run after having been rested and gelded. Zackey rides Surf s Up for trainer Corne Spies in Race 5, a Novice Handicap over 1000m, and he is more hopeful than anything. He is capable, but he has his niggles. If he is 100% sound on the day he comes to the track he could be hard to beat but I do feel he is capable of running in the first three. In Race 6 Zackey is aboard William Nicol, who he rode into second place last time behind Minneota. He must have a chance in a very open race but there are only two horses who worry me Shukamisa and Silver Sails. I galloped Silver Sails and he gave me a very nice feel. He is definitely better than his last run and his two runs before that were not bad. I rode him when he finished fourth to Zouaves who is highly rated by the Geo Woodruff stable. It was Silver Sails first run since arriving from Durban and he probably needed that start. Forest Fox is another who must have a chance. Zackey was slated to ride Var s Your Daddy in Race 7 but he has been scratched along with Gold Status, Carve The Turkey and Captain Coyote. That could make Bold Coast hard to beat, said Zackey. Trainer Stanley Ferreira told Phumelela Publishing colleague Trevor Reid that Bold Coast is a different horse since he was gelded. If he repeats his last run, he will win. Fish River Canyon is Zackey s ride in Race 8 but he admits to be disappointed with her last performance. I liked her so much on that occasion, but she moved up and then had nothing left. I wouldn t leave her out but I m not confident of a win. Zackey added that this race was also wide open. At A Glance is knocking on the door and I would give chances to Winning Sister and Beautiful Shay as well. Race 9 also looks open but a lot will depend on whether St John Gray runs Last Girl Standing who was a winner on Tuesday. I m not sure if she can win two days apart, said Zackey. But I do think Main Baby ran a good race last time and is the horse to beat and I also think Inkolo is ready to win again. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.