The BMW X3 was the car that launched the midsize SAV (Sports Activity Vehicle) segment in 2003. Since then, BMW has recorded more than 1.5 million new registrations of the X3 across the two model generations so far. And now the new BMW X3 is set to write the next chapter in this success story with an even more striking, dynamic design language, powerful yet also efficient drive systems and luxurious appointments. . Customers can choose from three model lines xLine, Luxury Line and M Sport and the BMW Individual range of products to align the inside and outside of the new BMW X3 even more precisely with their personal tastes. The range-topping BMW X3 M40i will be the first M Performance Automobile in this model series. And comes with a carefully honed chassis, including reduced unsprung mass and sophisticated axle kinematics that elevates sporty handling to another new level. From the launch of the new model the engine line-up will feature three petrol and two diesel engine variants with outputs from 135kW to 265kW, and all models will come with the eightspeed Steptronic transmission as standard. The weight of the new BMW X3 has been reduced by up to 55 kilograms from the predecessor model thanks to intelligent lightweight construction and also features class-leading aerodynamics. On board you will have a stateof-the-art operating system, with optional gesture control and Intelligent Voice Assistant. Owners can operate functions including the optional auxiliary heating using the optional BMW Display Key. The optional BMW CoPilot can be ordered and features options such as the latest generation of Active Cruise Control and the Driving Assistant Plus safety package including Steering and lane control assistant, Lane Change Assistant (est. from December 2017) and Lane keeping assistant with side collision protection, all providing extensive scope for (semi-) automated driving. . The full range of latest-generation BMW Connected functions are available, providing seamless connectivity between owners and the outside world. The new X3 will be available from November 2017.