Proteas legend Mark Boucher says based on the evidence of what has gone before on tour, South Africa will be up against it in the Test series against England that starts at Lord s on Thursday. The Proteas have stumbled through their tour of England with series defeats in the ODIs and T20s, as well as a desperately disappointing display in the Champions Trophy. Also read: Proteas have a proud record to protect at Lord s They now face four Tests against the hosts. On top of that, South Africa go into the opening encounter without regular captain Faf du Plessis, having already been shorn of their leading run-scorer, AB de Villiers, and their leading wicket-taker, Dale Steyn. I m a realist. It s going to be tough because they re missing some big names. Not having Dale Steyn is a big blow because he is the spearhead, he leads the attack in those conditions with his ability to swing the ball. But it s an opportunity for other guys, said Boucher. Kagiso Rabada did very well in Australia, but conditions there probably suit him more than in England. He s going to have to be guided very well in terms of the right lines and lengths to bowl in England. The Proteas really need a good start, which they haven t had so far. But it s a different team altogether from the limited-overs one and there is more confidence in the Test line-up than there is the ODI team. The Test team knows how to win. But they are up against a very, very good team at home. Dean Elgar is going to captain South Africa for the first time, and he is also set to have a debutant opening partner in Heino Kuhn, meaning there is going to be considerable pressure on a Proteas top-order that should also feature Theunis de Bruyn, who has played just one Test, slotting into Du Plessis number four position. I hope the batsmen have found some form because they have let us down so far. We ve got the bowlers to put the opposition batsmen under pressure, but they can t do that it we don t have enough runs on the board. We can t keep expecting Quinton de Kock to save the day at number seven day in and day out, they need to take the pressure off up front. Hopefully the batsmen can have a good tour, with a couple of them averaging 50 to 70, and then we ve got the bowlers to do the job, Boucher said. The Titans coach, who has Elgar as one of his key players, said he was confident the left-handed opener is going to do a good stand-in job as captain. The great wicketkeeper/batsman had the same experience when he led South Africa in four Tests against Australia in 2002 due to Shaun Pollock s injury. I can relate because I was in the same sort of scenario, not captaining my franchise and then being asked to lead South Africa out of the blue. But Dean is lucky because he has the respect of the other players, he leads from the front and will fight like never before, which his players will appreciate. Dean has got the gutsiness, he knows the team will follow him, he s got the changeroom because he s an honest, open guy. He will wind up the players in the right way in order to get the best out of them, Boucher said. He s unlucky though in that there are not a lot of senior players around him with no Faf and no AB, but I m sure Hashim Amla and JP Duminy will help a lot. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.