A gas and oil exploration company announced on Thursday, that it had been given the go-ahead to explore in northern KwaZulu-Natal, leaving environmentalists anxious that the madness that is fracking was now one step closer in the province. KwaZulu-Natal s northern inland has become a focal point for various exploration companies eager to find large deposits of hydrocarbons. Environmental activists have been vigorously campaigning against any exploration out of concern that it could lead to the controversial mining process known as hydraulic fracturing commonly called fracking . Their concerns primarily rest on large volumes of water needed to extract the gas from the ground and the possibility of long-term ground water pollution. Johannesburg-based Sungu Sungu Gas (Pty) Ltd was given permission on June 30, by the Department of Minerals and the Petroleum Agency of South Africa to explore the Dannhauser magisterial district for oil and gas. Sungu Sungu, through their environmental consultants Environmental Impact Management Services, informed all interested and affected parties on Thursday exactly 14 days after the environmental authorisation was granted and the deadline date in which the company had to inform the public. In the authorisation document, Department of Minerals acting deputy director-general in mining regulation Seipati Dhlamini said: The holder is authorised to undertake project database establishment and management, geological mapping, geological and geophysical logging, petro-physical analysis and volumetric analysis, geochemical and soil samplings, 80km line 2D seismic survey and driving of five diamond core exploration wells . The exploration area is 7,763 hectares. The authorisation, which maintained strict guidelines from the size of space clearance to demands for daily readings to be taken concerning the volume of water used during the exploration process, said a 1km buffer zone around the Chelmsford Nature Reserve must be established during operations on site and this must be regarded as a no-go area for invasive exploration operations and that they must record daily water use during drilling operations . According to Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, which manages the reserve, Chelmsford Nature Reserve surrounds the Ntshingwayo Dam, a state dam situated on the iNgagane river that covers a total area of 6,800 ha. Dhlamini said Sungu Sungu must conclude land access agreements with landowners. Lobby group Frack Free South Africa s Judy Bell said this decision was a precedent for fracking and will open the flood gates for the bigger ones to be approved . We believe PASA is testing the water to see if anyone notices. If there are appeals, and there will be lots, are not upheld and exploration begins, then the madness that is fracking will begin. The far more extensive Rhino Oil and Gas South Africa applications for a huge swathe of our water factories are just waiting for this application to be authorised. We do not have enough water to enable the frackers to de-water the coal bed to extract the methane. They will then pollute what is left, said Bell. She said the latest research from the U.S. had shown that the treated wastewater from fracking operations remains polluted. Dannhauser and surrounding areas is reliant on the Chelmsford Dam and surrounding wetlands for lives and livelihoods. Already there have been debilitating impacts from the drought. Why would we knowingly make things worse? Last year, Sungu Sungu had its bid to explore areas in both KZN and the Free State covering 565,000 ha stopped in the Pietermaritzburg High Court by local farmers on the grounds that the company did not adequately inform the landowners who would be affected by the exploration about their application. Earlier this year, the Pietermaritzburg High Court ordered Rhino Oil and Gas Exploration South Africa (Pty) Ltd to stop all exploration in an 800,000 ha area after it was found the PASA had ignored key components of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act. The application was brought by Normandien Farms which runs a timber and R40-million water-bottling plant on its farm near Newcastle.