What a difference a week can make. Seven days ago, the Proteas were lambasted for their pitiful batting in the second innings of the defeat at Lord&#8217;s. On Monday, South Africa&#8217;s bowlers were so relentless in Nottingham that they forced England into delivering a similar sad performance with the bat. As a result, the Proteas won by a massive 340 runs to level the series at 1-all. The tone was set by the brilliant Vernon Philander, whose suffocating line brought him figures of 3/24 as England were swatted aside for 133. He castled Keaton Jennings in the second over of the day before he trapped the embattled Gary Ballance in front with a delivery that straightened. But the key spell was produced by Chris Morris. The lanky all-rounder struck a critical blow when he bowled the dangerous Joe Root with a magnificent outswinging yorker. And to make matters worse, a cracking bouncer to Alistair Cook made the former English skipper look helpless as he merely fended the ball down the leg side, where Quinton de Kock held a superb catch. Cook was the only man to show any sort of resistance with 42 but his dismissal meant the hosts slumped to 79/4 at lunch. The end came swiftly in the second session though it has to be said that England&#8217;s poor judgement also contributed to their collapse. Jonny Bairstow (16) danced down the track, only to drag Keshav Maharaj&#8217;s left-arm spin to mid-wicket before Moeen Ali (21) swept him to square leg. It almost seemed as if Ali didn&#8217;t see that there was a fielder stationed there. When Ben Stokes charged Philander, only to push the ball tamely back for a caught-and-bowled chance, England&#8217;s hopes were gone. Maharaj finished with 3/42 as Stuart Broad holed out to deep mid-wicket and Duanne Olivier (2/25), who conceded 25 runs in his first three overs, took the last two wickets with the first two deliveries of his new spell. It was a fitting way to illustrate the Proteas&#8217; ruthlessness but England&#8217;s tactics left much to be desired. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.