As with most major horseracing events, the fashion makes up a large part of the day with upcoming designers, established designers and independent fashionistas embracing the annual theme and translating it into extravagant garments. There is further encouragement of the local fashion industry through a number of competitions run prior to, and on, race day. Visitors are witnessing extraordinary creations from the pre-race day competitions and shows including The Vodacom Durban July Young Designer Award; The Vodacom Durban July Fashion Challenge and The Vodacom Durban July Fashion Experience as well as the race day fashion competitions and Invited Designer Showcase taking place on the day. Aspiring fashion designers are getting the chance to showcase their creative talent to some 55 000 people at the on-day competition. Judges are looking for on-trend designs that are elegant, chic and stylish using a subtle integration of the theme while embracing the spirit of Africa s Greatest Horseracing Event. Take a look at some of the stylish racegoers taking part in the fashion contest: Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Fashion on the Track competition at the Durban July at Greyville racecourse in Durban, 1 July 2017, during the scouting for finalists near the Winning Post. Picture: Nigel Sibanda