There was a lot to like about the manner in which Blue Berry Pie ran on in her last start and she could be the runner to beat in Race 5 at the Vaal today. The Paul Peter-trained runner sat at the back of the field in that FM 68 Handicap over 1400m at the Vaal and the 400m mark she looked more likely to finish last than anywhere near the front of the field. However, the three-year-old daughter of The Sheik found a remarkable finish to end up in third spot, beaten just 0.60 lengths by Brightnumbersix. The form has been franked as a winner has already come out of that race and Blue Berry Pie can add to that outcome in this FM 84 Handicap over 1400m. She has only raced eight times for one win and three places but has come up against some very talented fillies, such as Bi Pot and High Seas Beauty and even the filly who beat her last time, Brightnumbersix, looks to be well above average. The interesting form line is that one behind High Seas Beauty as the pair meet again in this event. Just 0.30 lengths separated them at level weights and the 1kg weight turnaround in favour of Peter s runner could see her reverse that run although it is likely to be close. However, the last meeting was over 1200m and the additional 200m is also likely to favour Blue Berry Pie. Apprentice Lyle Hewitson takes the ride on this occasion. He rode her when she won her maiden at Greyville in January. High Seas Beauty, from the Mike de Kock yard, is the obvious danger. She is also a one-time winner but has also raced against some decent fillies. Anthony Delpech, who is chasing the South African Jockeys title this year, is back at the Vaal and will be aboard the Australian-bred daughter of High Chaparral. Rouge Allure lost form for a while but Stephen Moffatt s charge has bounced back to her beat recently. She has a decent enough record over the course and distance, having run five times for one win, two seconds and a third, so she is definitely one to include in Trifectas and Quartets. Weichong Marwing takes the ride for the first time. Shatoosh arguably has the strongest form as she has contested some feature races. Last time she ran a 1.20-length fourth behind Alexa in the Listed Syringa Handicap for fillies and mares over 1600m at Turffontein on the Inside track but Mike Azzie s charge has to concede 7kg to Blue Berry Pie. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.