A 50-year-old man accused of killing a taxi boss appeared briefly in the Stilfontein Magistrate s Court in the North West on Wednesday. The case against Simphiwe Mcunukeli was postponed to August 21, for the director of public prosecution to decide whether the matter should go to trial at a regional or high court. The State alleges that Mcunukile gunned down Jeffrey Mbambani, the chairperson of the Greater Stilfontein Taxi Association at his home in Khuma, near Klerksdorp, on August 3, 2015. He was shot once in the head through the window of his living room, while he was watching television. His widow Modiehi Mbambani said her husband had gone to Johannesburg to buy parts for his car on August 3. He was out the whole day and only arrived home around 20h00. He was in the living room for about five minutes when we heard a loud bang sound in the house, I was in the bedroom and rushed to the kitchen thinking the kettle had exploded. I found my daughter-in-law hiding behind a fridge and when I called my husband, he did not respond it was then that I saw him slumped on the sofa. He was shot, she said. He was shot dead in front of his grandchildren aged three and two, at that time. Mbambani s colleagues in the taxi industry believe his death was related to a route dispute between two taxi associations. Three of our minibus taxis were set alight prior to our chairman s death. I was beaten up by members of a rival association. said Mandla Gwanqa, administrator of the Greater Stilfontein Taxi Association. He said the Khuma United Taxi Association wanted to operate on the Stilfontein-Potchefstroom route without permits. The Stilfontein-Potchefstroom is our route, we have permits to operate there. Mines around have closed down, the Potchefstroom route is seen as a lucrative because of the university and the army base, every one want to operate on that route. A scene unfolded in front of the court building before the case was heard when three minibus taxis chased a private car at high speed down the street, alleging that the driver had picked up people who were supposed to have boarded a taxi. The driver of the car stopped in front of the court and calmly got out of his car as the three taxis boxed him in, with the taxi drivers wanting to know why he had pick up people on their route. The situation was defused when a detective told the taxi drivers that they did not have the right to harass the man.