Back when Mini was still a Mini, and that has changed throughout these years thanks to its increased dimensions, it was small. . But now it s not so MINI at all. But then this isn t your typical Mini &#8230; it is the Clubman John Cooper Works All4 model that packs a healthy 170kW of power and 350Nm of torque (29kW and 70Nm more than the S version) from its 2.0-litre turbocharged engine. It also features a new ALL4, all-wheel drive system that increases traction on the roads. It s bigger and better than the regular hatchback Mini, with more spacious interior and driveability. However, the playful Mini exceptionality remains, including rear barn doors and an interior that most rivals find hard to match within the industry. . For a price of R567 000 (as tested), it is undoubtedly at the high end of the hot hatch market. That means you get premium equipment like Harman Kardonsound system, adaptive cruise control, and leather trim, But the pricing remains a challenge. Why buy this if you can get a fivedoor JCW Mini Hatch that offers a similar level of flexibility and terse performance? Well, the JCW Clubman offers more interior space, both in the rear seat and the boot, and offers secure handling via all-wheel drive something the smaller Mini hatch range can t yet match. A minute into the drive, the Clubman reveals a very different character to the JCW hatch. It is playful and it fires from a standstill like a rocket. As you can see from the road test data collected at Gerotek, it showed a new level of competition. The Clubman really did well at Gerotek, considering it is a bit heavier than most and runs an AWD system, with a sprint from 0-100km/h in 6.74 seconds, a quarter mile in 15.02 seconds, the 1km at 196km/h and a top speed of 244km/h. Even on mixed surfaces, the All4 system is quick to send drive to the wheels that can use it best, recovering quickly from two wheels on the gravel shoulder, all the while still piling on speed. Point it to the road and it shows the need to gulp the tarmac ahead of you with a slick and quiet ride. A week with the car and with most of the driving done in Eco mode, the Clubman was able to return 8.8 litres per 100km instead of the 7.2 litres per 100km that Mini claims, which is not bad at all. With serious pulling power in all eight gears, it displayed fierceness that stimulated determined enthusiasm behind the wheel. Enhanced sound dampening techniques made the Clubman extremely quiet in most situations, while an aggressive tap on the accelerator allowed the engine to truly raise its voice and I loved the tunes produced by the twofold breathers at the back. All Clubman models, regardless of trim level, come standard with six airbags, traction control, electronic stability control and a tyre pressure monitoring system. Safety features that our test unit came with included adaptive cruise control as well as a collision and pedestrian detection system with an initial brake function. . You also get front and side airbags, side curtain airbags and three-point automatic belts on all seats. To all mothers, ISOFIX children s rear seat attachments, and, optionally, also on the front passenger seat, are there for your convenience. This is more than a dull, safe and stable hatch.