The Lions are good enough to win their Super Rugby semi-final against the Hurricanes, former Springbok captain Jean de Villiers believes. But they are going to miss injured skipper Warren Whiteley in the tough times that they will inevitably have to face on Saturday at Ellis Park. Also read: Super Rugby: Lions, Boks pour cold water over any Whiteley plan Whiteley s groin injury has ruled him out of the rest of Super Rugby, Springbok management confirmed on Thursday, with Jaco Kriel an experienced captain stepping into his shoes. However, there were times in their nailbiting win over the Sharks in the quarterfinals that the Lions looked decidedly rattled and the defending champion Hurricanes are going to provide an even stiffer test. &#8220;Obviously as a South African I hope the Lions win, and they re good enough to do that. The key thing though will be how they handle themselves when things get tough, and they will get tough against a quality side like the Hurricanes,&#8221; said De Villiers. &#8220;The Lions are missing Warren Whiteley big time, just the calming effect he brings. The Lions miss that maturity.&#8221; Former Springbok coach Carel du Plessis, the Prince of Wings in his playing days, believes the Lions can put pressure on the Hurricanes through the quality of their possession from the set-pieces. &#8220;It s difficult to call, but I would give the Lions a slight edge, 51% to 49%. That&#8217;s because I believe they can get decent possession from their set-piece, the scrum, and their lineout is important too. From that front-foot ball they will look to play with intensity and pace,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Nearly being upstaged by the Sharks last week was hopefully just an off day for the Lions, and the Hurricanes have to travel to altitude, which is never great. It will get to them at some stage, so that could be a factor. Both sides have lots of playmakers and the Hurricanes will definitely pose a threat, but the Lions are up to it, I reckon. &#8220;This week they have a lot to play for, whereas last week they had a lot to lose. So I think we ll see a change in attitude and approach from the Lions.&#8221; For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Would you like to place a rugby bet? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.