The Democratic Alliance on Sunday called on Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to update the public about the theft of computers during a break-in at the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation s (Hawks) head office in Pretoria in the early hours of July 5. The DA would write to parliament s police portfolio committee chairman Francois Beukman to request that Mbalula urgently provide the committee with a detailed presentation regarding matters of national importance that have not been satisfactorily addressed by the minister to date , DA spokesman Zakhele Mbhele said. This presentation must be prioritised as soon as parliament resumes its business next month, he said. The presentation should specifically include the progress of the investigation into the break-in at the Hawks offices as well as allegations that former acting Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) head Israel Kgamanyane had refused to produce a handover report on his tenure as head of the directorate to Ipid executive director Robert McBride. The minister must give a full presentation on the progress of the investigation into the burglary at the Hawks offices in Pretoria. Thus far, the minister has only promised to arrest the perpetrators, to no avail. The minister must also update the committee on reports alleging Israel Kgamanyane s refusal to submit to Robert McBride the handover report in order to understand the rationale for the numerous transfers, suspensions, and disciplinary actions against Ipid staff during the period of McBride s suspension [as Ipid head], Mbhele said. The committee had received direct testimonial in a recent meeting about this refusal by Kgamanyane to submit a handover report after he was swiftly and inexplicably transferred from the Ipid to the Hawks by the highly compromised former police minister Nathi Nhleko . It was unacceptable that Kgamanyane had seemingly been allowed to get away with this blatant disregard for due process. Mbalula should now update the committee on what he planned to do about Kgamanyane s refusal to hand over the report to McBride. Minister Mbalula must provide clear and decisive leadership on this matter to foster competent management in the police service, which will promote more effective law enforcement to reduce crime and ensure that South Africans are safe, Mbhele said. African News Agency (ANA)