The new Porsche 911 GT2 RS claims this title by way of a 515 kW biturbo flat engine. Weighing in at 1 470 kg with a full fuel tank, the lightweight two-seater accelerates from zero to 100 km/h in 2.8 seconds despite being driven by only its rear wheels. . The Coup has a top speed of 340 km/h, and with its near-motorsport drive technology, the new 911 GT2 RS trumps its 3.6-litre predecessor by 59 kW and achieves a torque of 750 Nm. The model builds on the 911 Turbo S 3.8-litre engine, which produces 427 kW. In order to increase performance, large turbochargers push an increased volume of process air into the combustion chambers. A new additional cooling system delivers optimum cooling at peak loads and, at very high temperatures, sprays the charge-air cooler with water. This causes the gas temperature to fall in the overpressure range and ensures optimum power output, even under extreme conditions. . The customised GT seven-speed PDK double-clutch transmission in the new GT2 RS enables power to be transferred with uninterrupted traction. What&#8217;s more, the specially developed exhaust system is made from extra-lightweight titanium, weighs around seven kilograms less than the system used in the 911 Turbo and induces goosebumps. Porsche claim the 911 GT2 RS takes cornering speeds to another level thanks to its racing chassis with rear-axle steering and ultra high performance (UHP) tyres. Like all GT sports cars, the new top model features a specially calibrated Porsche Stability Management with a Sport mode that is tailored to provide optimal driving dynamics. Powerful air intakes, outlets and the imposing rear wing emphasise the vehicle&#8217;s aerodynamics. The large, wide wheels, 265/35 ZR 20 at the front and 325/30 ZR 21 at the rear, ensure outstanding braking and cornering forces. The 911 GT2 RS features Porsche Ceramic Composite Brakes (PCCB) as standard. The front wings, wheel housing vents, outer shells on the Sport Design exterior mirrors, air intakes on the rear side sections and parts of the rear end are made from carbon-fibre reinforced plastic (CFR), as are many of the interior components. The bonnet is also made from carbon to make the vehicle as lightweight as possible, while the standard trim roof is made from magnesium. Both body parts have a wide lateral swage line. . Performance can be cranked up a notch through the optional Weissach package, which provides a weight saving of around 30 kilograms. The package includes additional elements made from carbon-fibre reinforced plastic and titanium. For instance, the roof and the anti-roll bars are made of carbon, and so are the coupling rods on both axles. Magnesium wheels reduce both the gross weight and the unsprung weight, providing a greater wealth of impressive chassis properties. The luggage compartment lid and the carbon-weave finish roof are emblazoned with a central strip in the same colour as the car for a visually distinctive look. The interior of the 911 GT2 RS is dominated by red Alcantara, black leather and interior parts with a carbon-weave finish as standard. The model&#8217;s sports steering wheel with gearshift paddles enables quick and sporty gear changes. Drivers and passengers experience the driving dynamics of the high-performance sports car in full bucket seats with a carbon-weave finish. Typical of every 911, the Porsche Communication Management (PCM) is the central control unit for audio, navigation and communication. . The Connect Plus module and Porsche Track Precision app are also included as standard, enabling detailed recording, display and analysis of driving data on a smartphone. The optional Chrono Package expands the PCM functions to include performance display, which can be used to show, save and evaluate track times. The package also includes a stopwatch on the switch panel with both analogue and digital display. What&#8217;s more, the Chrono Package on the 911 GT2 RS comes with a lap trigger. Using the Porsche Track Precision app in conjunction with external markers on a start/finish straight, this lap trigger enables drivers to record lap times with a high level of precision. For the first time, Porsche Design has teamed up with Porsche Motorsport to develop the 911 GT2 RS Chronograph, exclusively for customers of the new super sports car. At its heart is the first clock movement developed by Porsche Design, the product of three year&#8217;s work. The calibre 01.200 includes a flyback function, a load-path-optimised movement bridge and an official COSC certificate of authenticity. The timepiece housing is made of lightweight titanium. Many of the details on the timepiece are based on the high-performance sports car. The tungsten winding rotor is modelled on the rims of the 911 GT2 RS. The clock face is made of carbon, while the design of the time display matches the instrument cluster and the tachometer. . The new 911 GT2 RS with a 3-year Drive Plan is now available for order in South Africa, with prices starting at ZAR 4 411 000.