Alexander Forbes announced three key new executive appointments today in a bid to strengthen its leadership team following the withdrawal of chairman designate, Moses Kgosana. Kgosana, a former chief executive of audit firm KPMG, was due to take up the role of chairman at the financial and risk services provider on August 31, but withdrew from this role yesterday. Kgosana was exposed last week in the #GuptaLeaks reports as having had cosy relations with Atul Gupta during the time when KPMG were auditors of and advisors to the Oakbay Group entities owned by the Gupta family. According to investigative journalism unit AmaBhungane, the Guptas allegedly laundered money in the region of R30 million earmarked for the Free State Dairy project, through their company, Linkway Trading (Pty) Ltd. The money was used for a lavish family wedding in 2013, with KPMG allowing it to reflect in their books as a business expense . Current chairman, Sello Moloko, would remain non-executive chairman at Alexander Forbes in the interim. Alexander Forbes said the new leadership team would be focused on implementing the group s strategic ambition of building a globally distinctive pan-African financial services leader across five strategic business pillars. The new appointments are Naidene Ford-Hoon as group chief financial officer, Christian Schaub as group chief human resources officer subject to issuance of a work permit and Thabo Mashaba who is assuming a new role of group chief empowerment and transformation officer. Mashaba was formerly group chief human resources officer at Alexander Forbes and previously at Absa bank. Ford-Hoon joins the group from the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) where she was group chief financial officer. Schaub comes from the Marsh and McLennan companies, where he was global change leader, human resources transformation based in New York, United States. All appointments will take effect on September 1. Group chief executive, Andrew Darfoor, said the company sought to strengthen its leadership team. We have a crystal clear strategy and value proposition, a strong leadership team that is aligned and focused on the delivery of our strategy with speed and precision, and a focus on delivering on the significant upside potential that exists for Alexander Forbes in building a globally distinctive pan-African financial services leader operating in South Africa and selected emerging markets, Darfoor said.