Cancer 22 June 23 July There is a tendency to overspend, as your wish list is a lot larger than your bank balance. Mercury encourages you to become much more financially literate. Remember knowledge is power! Leo 24 July 23 August Communication planet Mercury is now moving through your sign until July 25. So it s the perfect time to express yourself via the spoken and written word in a wide variety of creative ways. Virgo 24 August 23 September Don t become too rigid in your approach and believe there is only one way to achieve your goals. There are many roads to success, and one of your great strengths is your Virgo versatility. Libra 24 September 23 October With Mercury now navigating through your networking zone, expand your peer group to include a stimulating new crowd. Plus use your intuition to help solve a tricky problem at work. Scorpio 24 October 22 November The planets are giving you a professional power surge today but don t overdo it! You re confident about your abilities but that must be tempered with a touch of humility and a willingness to learn. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Mercury is moving through your travel zone, so it s time to communicate with your overseas connections. If you amp up the Sagittarian charm, you ll uncover some helpful long-term contacts. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Coupled Capricorn frank discussions with your partner will lead to a much-needed breakthrough. If you are single and looking for love, you ll have to be proactive. Aquarius 21 January 19 February With Mercury moving into your relationship zone, the more you communicate with loved ones, the better you ll feel. Don t be too independent. If you need help, reach out and ask. Pisces 20 February 20 March Mercury is moving through your job zone. So aim to be more creative, communicative and enthusiastic at work. If you slow down, stagnate or procrastinate, you ll just be left behind. Aries 21 March 20 April With curious Mercury moving into your entertainment zone, it s time to resume an old hobby or take up a new one. Plus enjoy some lively conversations with a child, teenager or close friend. Taurus 21 April 21 May Today s stars highlight steady conversation and creative communication, as you enjoy the company of family and friends. Take the time to understand what a loved one is really going through. Gemini 22 May 21 June Your ruler Mercury moves into your communication zone. You re keen to express your ideas and enjoy plenty of stimulating conversations with interesting people.