A strike looms at the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) following wage negotiation deadlock, the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) said on Monday. Nehawu is currently preparing for a strike at the Agricultural Research Council after wage negotiations deadlocked on the 19th April 2017. The strike is set to commence on Wednesday the 12th July 2017, general secretary Zola Saphetha said in a statement. He said in line with the provisions of the recognition agreement, an internal dispute meeting was convened on April 24, but parties failed to break the wage deadlock, and as such, Nehawu referred two disputes to the CCMA (Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration). The two disputes referred to the CCMA was a dispute on matters of mutual interest (wage dispute) and dispute on interpretation and application of agreement relating to payment of 10th percentile minimum salary adjustment by the employer as per CCMA settlement signed in 2015. During the course of negotiations, organised labour revised its offer from 10 percent, down to 7.3 percent, whilst management remained stagnant on its original and final offer of a mere five percent, he said. He said as part of remedies proposed by the union in its attempt to break the deadlock was for the employer to consider a sliding scale increase other than the across-the-board increase due to the fact that the across the board arrangement benefited senior management far more than employees at the bottom of the salary scales. This equitable and progressive proposal was flatly rejected by the employer. This proposed remedy was also meant to address the current salary gap between senior management and employees at the lower levels. It is important to note that currently senior management at the Agriculture Research Council are paid at above the 75th to 90th percentile, whilst low level staff are at paid below the 10th percentile of the market. Currently, the highest paid senior manager receives a salary of about R2 221 577 compared to R53 089 annual salary paid to a low-salary employee, based on a salary benchmark conducted and commissioned by the same employer. 