A 30-year-old motorcyclist died when he crashed on the N12 east near the Tom Jones off-ramp in Benoni, Ekurhuleni on Sunday afternoon, paramedics said. Paramedics from ER24 and local provincial services attended the scene at about 1pm where they found the rider near the side of the road, ER24 spokesman Werner Vermaak said. Paramedics initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) on the rider but were unable to revive him. He was later declared dead on the scene. The circumstances surrounding the crash were not yet known, he said. Three killed, seven injured in N4 collision in North West Also on Sunday afternoon, three people were killed and seven others were injured when a minibus taxi and a BMW collided on the N4 between Brits and Rustenburg in the North West, paramedics said. Three people were killed and seven others were injured when a minibus taxi and a BMW collided on the N4 between Brits and Rustenburg in the North West on Sunday afternoon. Picture: ER24 At about 3.30pm, paramedics from ER24 and other services arrived on the scene where they found both vehicles down an embankment, several metres into the veld, ER24 spokesman Werner Vermaak said. Several occupants from the taxi were ejected. A toddler believed to be about two years old was also found with moderate injuries. Two people were found near the taxi with fatal injuries. Sadly, there was nothing that paramedics could do for them and they were declared dead on the scene. A passenger from the BMW sustained fatal injuries. The injured people were treated on the scene for various injuries and transported to nearby hospitals for further care. The circumstances surrounding the collision were not yet known. The N4 west was closed for some time while police attended the scene for investigations, Vermaak said. Three people were killed and seven others were injured when a minibus taxi and a BMW collided on the N4 between Brits and Rustenburg in the North West on Sunday afternoon. Picture: ER24 African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.