Cancer 22 June 23 July The stars favour connecting with your creative inner muse. But, if you rush communication, things could get confusing. Instead, take the time to get deep and meaningful with a loved one Leo 24 July 23 August Lions love to talk things up but don t promise more than you can deliver especially when it comes to professional projects. Get the balance right between being enthusiastic and realistic. Virgo 24 August 23 September Expect to feel on edge today and tonight, as Uranus revs up your over-sensitive Virgo nervous system. So do all you can to worry less and relax more. Your todo- list will still be there tomorrow. Libra 24 September 23 October Hold onto your seat because a close relationship could be very chaotic over the next 24 hours. Don t assume you know how the other person is thinking and feeling. You may be way off the mark. Scorpio 24 October 22 November If you re planning a business trip or heavenly holiday then don t leave things until the last minute. Be strategic Scorpio! Do your homework, go through your itinerary and organise your paperwork. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Curiosity, restlessness and nervous energy are high. Don t skim the surface there s more going on than you realise. Take time to investigate issues properly otherwise you ll miss important details. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Don t limit yourself Capricorn! The wider your circle of family, friends, neighbours, work colleagues and acquaintances, the more influence you will have in the big wide world outside your door Aquarius 21 January 19 February You re easily bored today but resist the temptation to spark things up by being contrary, upsetting others and rocking the boat. Find less disruptive ways to add spark and interest to your day Pisces 20 February 20 March Stop procrastinating Pisces and start doing! It s a good day to take inspiring creative ideas and turn them into practical, productive long-term projects. But don t be extra rash with cash. Aries 21 March 20 April Use your Aries energy to fire up projects, and then follow through with plenty of passion and purpose. But resist the urge to blurt out something totally inappropriate, especially at home. Taurus 21 April 21 May Enjoying good times and delicious meals &#8211; with family and friends is highlighted today. But don t be dismayed if a recalcitrant relative divulges something that would be better left unsaid. Gemini 22 May 21 June Money matters look complicated and rather chaotic today. Don t make important financial decisions, make expensive purchases, or sign contracts until you are thinking much more clearly.