Sudan President Omar al-Bashir has issued a decree to extend the unilateral cessation of hostilities in war zones until October 2017. The presidential decree is a continuation of the government s approach to national dialogue and to allow the holdout groups to join the peace process , the Sudan Tribune reported on Sunday. Sudanese government forces have been engaged in continued fighting with Sudan People s Liberation Movement/North (SPLM-N) rebels in the Blue Nile and South Kordofan, also known as the Two Areas. The Sudanese military has also been fighting several armed groups in the troubled Darfur region since 2003. Al-Bashir declared a unilateral four-month ceasefire in June 2016, which he extended for another two months in October, and then by another month in December. The SPLM-N, and two of the Darfur movements, the Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM-MM) led by Minni Minnawi, and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), last October extended for six months the unilateral cessation of hostilities in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan, which they declared in October 2015 and April of 2016. However, last August, following six days of talks in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, the armed movements and the government failed to conclude a deal on security arrangements and humanitarian access in Darfur and the Two Areas, which prompted the African Union mediation to suspend the talks indefinitely. Meanwhile, in neighbouring South Sudan, the country s national dialogue committee is currently seeking the intervention of regional and continental leaders to bring the country s rival leaders for a face-to-face meeting. A delegation is in South Africa to meet the leader of the armed opposition faction chairman, Dr Riek Machar, to explore his views. According to Tribune sources, the group is to hold talks with the African National Congress (ANC), specifically President Jacob Zuma and his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa. There is optimism that the South African leaders will convince South Sudan President Salva Kiir that he and Machar can overcome their differences and be part of a confidence-building process. Nevertheless, according to the sources there are certain individuals who are trying to frustrate efforts at consensus building. Should the group s efforts at consensus building succeed, however, there is a chance that Machar will return to the capital Juba to participate in the upcoming general elections to take place at the end of the interim period. Machar fled to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in August last year after fierce fighting. Over a million people have fled the world s youngest nation since conflict erupted in late 2013 when Kiir sacked Machar from his post.