Cancer 22 June 23 July You need to be extra patient and diplomatic with someone today especially at work. If you say exactly what s on your mind, then things may go off in a totally unpredictable direction. Leo 24 July 23 August Has a relationship with a friend or acquaintance been awkward over the past few weeks? You can expect an improvement in communication as long as you put in the time and effort. Virgo 24 August 23 September Creative thinking helps you solve a problem. Don t make a final decision though. Sleep on it. A relationship with a family member is about to improve in leaps and bounds. Libra 24 September 23 October Venus your ruling planet is now visiting the sign of Gemini until July 31. Which means there ll be two sides to every relationship story. So you ll have to be adaptable and keep on your toes! Scorpio 24 October 22 November Do you need to increase cash flow? Focus on boosting your finances in practical and hands-on ways. Perhaps you could set up an online store; tutor others; or start a business from home? Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Venus is moving through your relationship zone until July 31. So the next few weeks will be all about love, romance, friendship, consultation, cooperation and/or your social life. Enjoy! Capricorn 22 December 20 January Venus invigorates your daily work zone, so it s a chance to really get ahead. However, don t let professional progress happen at the expense of your family, friends and personal life. Aquarius 21 January 19 February Communication and variety are the buzz words as your restless side kicks in. Uranus boosts your multi-tasking skills, but avoid taking on too much and scattering your energy in all directions Pisces 20 February 20 March Home is definitely where the heart is, as diplomatic Venus visits your domestic zone. If you ve been having problems with a relative, now s the time to build bridges with a warm and loving heart. Aries 21 March 20 April Today will be a bit of a roller coaster as you get an exciting project up and running. But pace yourself and be careful you don t blurt out the wrong thing to the wrong person at the wrong time! Taurus 21 April 21 May You can greatly influence others, as long as you are being 100% honest. You also need to nurture two-way communication, especially involving family and friends. Take the time to really listen. Gemini 22 May 21 June With Venus shifting into your sign until July 31, it s time to charge up your charisma and call in a few favours. Others will find your intriguing Gemini charm and friendly nature hard to resist!