Cancer 22 June 23 July The more closely you micro-manage other people, the more they will distance themselves from you. Emotional power struggles are also likely, as a loved one tries to break free. Leo 24 July 23 August Don t let feelings of guilt or jealousy mar relations with others. Aim to be open and honest in all your dealings. The only person who is likely to sabotage situations at the moment is you. Virgo 24 August 23 September You could find yourself at odds with a child, teenager, or friend. But the more relentlessly you argue your case, the more entrenched the situation will become. Try to keep things in perspective. Libra 24 September 23 October You want everything to run smoothly this weekend but it s just not going to happen. A close relationship will be intense and complicated, so try to relax and just take things as they come. Scorpio 24 October 22 November Power struggles on your part will just lead to ongoing dramas. With Venus visiting your relationship zone, jump off the war path and instead, strive to be more cooperative and consultative. Sagittarius 23 November 21 December Don t be too hard on yourself Sagittarius or let rattled nerves stop you from doing something you ve always wanted to do. You re in an obsessive mood but try not to sweat the small stuff. Capricorn 22 December 20 January Attempting to control others is a recipe for trouble this weekend. The more authoritarian you are, the more difficult things will be. An assertive relative will certainly test your patience. Aquarius 21 January 19 February You re keen to converse and communicate but are others in the mood to listen? Concentrate on individual projects, as loved ones are wrapped up in their own problems this weekend. Pisces 20 February 20 March Try not to pick up on the obsessions and intensity of others. Focus your mind on your goals and aspirations, and then motivate yourself into action. Piscean procrastination will get you nowhere fast. Aries 21 March 20 April Avoid the temptation to jump to conclusions and be bossy especially with loved ones or authority figures. You might find you ve bitten off more than you can comfortably chew! Taurus 21 April 21 May Venus is visiting your sign, so you re in the mood for a spending spree. But is that such a good idea? With Saturn sauntering through your shared resources zone, you need to take a long-term view Gemini 22 May 21 June A close relationship may be strained so watch what you say. Think carefully before you blurt out something totally inappropriate. And it s definitely not the right time to be cracking jokes!