Alan Greeff sends out a three-pronged attack on today in the Port Elizabeth Gold Cup over 3600m at Fairview. Although stayers contests tend to get tricky, Kingston Mines appears to be the right horse in this event. The fact that stable jockey Greg Cheyne is aboard indicates Kingston Mines is the stable elect. This gelding returned to winning ways impressively over 3200m last time out, defeating a number of runners he meets again in this field. When in the right frame of mind the six-year-old gelding is a relentless galloper and there appears to be no reason why he would not relish the extra 400m. He jumps from No 1 draw and will shoulder 60kg, the same as 12-time winner Crown Of Gold who won this race in 2013, 2014 and 2016, all three times he has contested the longest race in South Africa. This Tara Laing-trained eight-year-old was beaten 16.50 lengths into seventh by Kingston Mines one run back so might have a lot to do to reverse the form. His last victory, in fact, was in this very race last year. His recent form isn t the most encouraging but he always brings his best form to this race. Based on his last run Justin Snaith-trained Arezzo could prove the main danger. He hasn t run since finishing 2.25 lengths in third behind Kingston Mines in Glenlair Trophy. He s improved with each race run at Fairview, running closer to the winners with each attempt. A son of Go Deputy, this five-year-old jumps from draw No 5 and will shoulder 59kg. That s 1kg less than Kingston Mines, which shouldn t prove too much of an advantage. Craig Zackey has had a stellar season and could win aboard Respectable Rebel in Race 5, a MR 72 Handicap over 1200m. Another Tara Laing-trained gelding, he has finished second in his last two outings. Looking at the current conditions he could score career victory No 4. He s yet to run out of the money at the course and that is unlikely to change. He jumps from No 1 draw but will have to shoulder a hefty 61kg. He is capable and his class should see him through. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.