Proteas skipper Faf du Plessis has a stark warning for England newbie Tom Westley: a warm-up game isn t a Test match. The 28-year-old batsman from Essex is expected to fill the troublesome No 3 position when the third Test gets underway at The Oval on Thursday. He recently scored an unbeaten 106 for the England Lions in the Proteas only preparation before the first Test. Also read: Well done to him for getting a 100 previously but I can promise you the intensity of a warm-up game versus a Test match is totally different, said Du Plessis on Wednesday. He will be playing against different attack. And the Proteas certainly have an opportunity to exploit the situation. Since that impressive century, Westley has only played in England s domestic T20 competition and scored just 92 runs in five innings. Not only will he have to adapt to the Test format again, his form isn t all that great. The man to ram home that possible advantage is Kagiso Rabada. The brilliant 22-year-old quick, who missed the 340-run win at Trent Bridge due to suspension, will be the only change to the Proteas XI. I m excited to see what KG is going to bring to this game. With the time off, as a player it makes you a little bit hungry again and the fact that we have done well in the previous game will add as motivation, said Du Plessis. The conditions, if the weather is like this, will be a bit bowling friendly so I assume he will be raring to get that ball in his hand. Yet while Rabada s return adds some star power to the South African line-up, Du Plessis believes the side s greatest strength is the fact that the few underrated members invariably contribute. We are possibly underestimated at times, said the Proteas captain. Our team s strength is our focus on every guy in the team playing a small role to get us over the line. There have been unsung heroes all the time that have stepped up and made plays for the team when we most wanted them to. England have confirmed that seamer Toby Roland-Jones will also be making his debut. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.