DiamondCorp announced on Tuesday, that the Issuer Regulation Division of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) has agreed to the removal of its secondary listing status from the alternative board as the company is no longer eligible for a listing on the JSE. Trading in the DiamondCorp s shares on the JSE s alternative board, and on the London stock exchange, was suspended in November last year. The termination of Diamondcorp s secondary listing status on alternative board will all come to completion on Monday, 24 July. Trade in DiamondCorp has run into difficulties as Lace Diamond Mine, its core business in Northern Cape, was hit with a series of setbacks which resulted in the temporary suspension of mining and put further straits on its balance sheets. Diamondcorp filed notice of its intention to appoint administrators earlier this year after the board determined that the company was no longer able to continue trading as a going concern, and was put under business rescue programme managed by Deloitte and Touche. Lace Mine was put into business administration following the impact of adverse weather which resulted in flooding, and the company tried in vain to refinance the operation via a placing and debt restructuring. The miner was also dealt a blow late last year when the Department of Mineral Resources issued it with a Section 54 shutdown notice on underground operations following a fire incident on a dump truck just inside the portal to the decline. The miner has since struggled to raise capital and settle debt to satisfy its immediate requirements to continue trading as a going concern as a formal agreement with one of its major backers, the Industrial Development Corporation, also collapsed. In May, the Southern African diamond mining, development and exploration company appointed London-based joint administrators, Stephen Cork and Jo Milner of Cork Gully LLP. Discussions between the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) and the business rescue practitioner were also terminated without a settlement being reached on a collective agreement to allow care and maintenance to commence, leaving all employees to be retrenched.