Black Cat Back surprised a few experts when he won a Pinnacle Stakes over 1400m at Kenilworth last month as he was not well handicapped under the race conditions. He took the lead early on and every time it appeared something would catch him Brett Crawford s charge kept finding more and in the end was quite an impressive winner. He received a six-point penalty for that victory but despite that he looks well treated when he lines up in a MR 94 Handicap over the same course and distance today. There are certain restrictions placed on the handicappers when it comes to punishing winners of plate races and Black Cat Back appears to be better than the penalty he was handed. As a result he could extend his winning streak although there will be a change of jockey on this occasion. Corne Orffer has ridden him to victory on previous occasions but he is out of action and Greg Cheyne takes the ride for the first time. This three-year-old gelding, a son of Black Minnaloushe, seems to enjoy running on the Winter Course but that might be because he loves the wet conditions and they tend to happen during the winter months in the Cape. He has raced in soft going on three occasions for two wins and a third place. Based on that run on 20 June, the runner best weighted to get closer to Black Cat Back is Star Chestnut. He is one of two runners from the Justin Snaith yard and has Bernard Fayd Herbe in the irons. While Crawford s charge will carry 4kg more than last time, Star Chestnut goes up just 2kg. He finished 4.75 lengths behind Black Cat Back so the 2kg turnaround looks unlikely to be enough to reverse the form. Stable companion Overshadow did not run in that Pinnacle Stakes but based on two previous performances against Star Chestnut is unlikely to finish ahead of his stable companion. Richard Fourie takes the ride. Brilliant Crimson finished 3.50 lengths behind Black Cat Back but is only 1kg better off so that is not in his favour. He has also run since and was well beaten by Milton over 1600m in his next start. Catkin also looks well held on the last run, He was badly drawn and did run on well but is just 1.5kg better off and looks unlikely to turnaround the 2.75-length defeat. Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.