Excitement was at an all time high as the first locally manufactured Mercedes-AMG C 43 4MATIC rolled off the production line in East London. . Since its launch earlier in the year, the AMG brand promise Driving Performance and the typical character traits can now be experienced by an even broader target group. As an attractive entry into the world of AMG, the MercedesAMG C 43 4MATIC combines a 270kW 3.0-litre twin-turbo V6 engine with a permanent Performance all-wheel-drive system and sophisticated suspension technology adopted from the Mercedes-AMG C 63. The result is fascinating Driving Performance and the hallmark emotional expressiveness of the brand. The new AMG sports model is available as a sedan and a coupe variant, and makes the extensive product line-up within the C-Class range even more attractive. The complete C-Class sedan range is manufactured in East London, including the flagship Mercedes-AMG C 63 and the C 63 S variants. With the Mercedes-AMG C 43 we present a sporty and emotionally expressive vehicle. It combines the power of a strong twin-turbo V6 engine with a high level of emotional expressiveness, and avails itself of the technical DNA of the new C 63. The new sports models represent a convincing proposition for our customers: sports car technology and motor racing fascination become more attainable, says Selvin Govender, Marketing Director, Mercedes-Benz Cars. The declared goal of MercedesBenz is making top-class safety available to everyone. The C 43 4MATIC lives up to this standard as well because it adopts many of the new and significantly enhanced assistance systems that are also being used in the S-Class. It comes standard-equipped with the further enhanced ATTENTION ASSIST fatigue detection system and COLLISION PREVENTION ASSIST PLUS, which helps prevent rear-end collisions. The assistance systems increase both comfort and safety. The predecessor to the new C-Class already impressed with excellent results regarding passive safety. The current model surpasses it. Pricing Mercedes-AMG C 43 Sedan R858 400