Sentencing proceedings in the matter involving a Plettenberg Bay man who pleaded guilty to just short of 19,000 charges of possession of child pornography got under way in the Knysna Regional Court on Friday. William Beale, 39, who in February pleaded guilty to the charges, was arrested in January 2015 at his Plettenberg Bay home and became the first South African to have been arrested as part of the international Operation Cloud 9 . This involved co-operation between South African and Belgian police responsible for cracking down on an international child pornography ring linked to a cyber meeting space for paedophiles whose fetishes seemed to be the sexual abuse of babies. Some of the images found included the torture and murder of babies as young as only a few days old. Among the witnesses who testified as part of sentencing proceedings on Friday was George clinical psychologist Tjaart van der Walt who was called in mitigation of sentence. Van der Walt testified that Beale had suffered severe abuse sexual, physical, and psychological as a child and this was a contributing factor to developing deviant sexual interests. He said that after consulting Beale, it became apparent that Beale suffered from several disorders, including paedophilia and strong anti-social behavioural traits. Van der Walt said that while there was no cure for paedophilia and no best practice treatment for it, research had shown that hands-off online offenders which did not include physical abuse of children had a low likelihood of reoffending or becoming contact criminals. While there was no treatment available for someone like Beale, there were programmes that Beale could participate in to address the behaviour associated with his disorders, Van der Walt said. He noted that whether Beale underwent these programmes in prison or under correctional supervision, the outcome would in all likelihood be the same. A correctional services report also handed in as evidence on Friday suggested that Beale was a candidate for correctional supervision, but prosecutor Gerda Marx pointed out that there was no monitoring programme in place in terms of his online activity. Correctional supervision only involved several visits to the convicted person s home and work. The matter was postponed to October 4 for continuation of sentencing when the state is expected to cross-examine Van der Walt and call another expert witness. African News Agency (ANA)