Following the recent launch of the all-new Audi A5 Coupe and Sportback, the new Audi A5 Cabriolet has now been introduced to South Africa to complete the second generation of the A5 family. In the Audi S5 Cabriolet, a new six-cylinder turbocharged engine developing 260kW and 500 Nm of torque ensures top performance. . The designers went with the precise, elegant lines of the coup for the shape of the new Audi A5 cabriolet. The rear window is now flatter and emphasises the sporty looks, as do the short overhangs and the long wraparound hood with power dome. With a length of 4,673 millimetres, the new A5 Cabriolet is 47 millimetres longer than the predecessor model. Together with the wheelbase, which has been extended by 14 millimetres, and more compact seats, this means more space for the driver and passengers. Shoulder room in the front row of seats has been increased by 26 millimetres and knee room in the rear by 18 millimetres. The classic soft top fits perfectly into the athletic design and delivers outstanding aeroacoustics thanks to effective insulation. . The new one-touch opening function makes operating the standard acoustic hood much easier: A quick pull of the switch is all it takes to open the soft top fully automatically in 15 seconds or close it in 18 seconds even while driving up to 50 km/h. With its sporty and agile handling, the A5 Cabriolet is impressively dynamic. The engineers increased the already high torsional stiffness of the previous model by 40 percent. The body is now the stiffest in its class. The total weight of the new generation has been reduced by up to 40 kilograms. An updated five-link suspension is used on the front axle. At the rear, a five-link construction replaces the trapezoidal-link suspension used on the previous model. Adaptive dampers are available as an option and are incorporated into the standard Audi drive select dynamic handling system, which allows the driver to choose between a highly dynamic or comfortable driving experience. . The newly developed electromechanical power steering offers good feedback from the road and greater steering precision. Optionally available is dynamic steering, which varies its gear ratio depending on the speed and steering angle. The engine lineup initially comprises two units a 2.0 TFSI with 140kW and a 2.0T FSI with 185kW. The former engine will only be offered in front-wheel drive, while the latter only with quattro permanent all-wheel drive. Both engines, however, will be offered in either a Base or Sport trim line. A 2.0TDI engine will be available for the South African market at a later stage. . Rounding out the initial A5 Cabriolet offering will be the sporty Audi S5 Cabriolet. This model is equipped with a turbocharged, 2995 cc, six-cylinder engine producing 260kW 15kW more than its predecessor. The sprint from zero to 100 km/h takes 5.1 seconds, while its top speed is limited to 250km/h. The new Audi A5 Cabriolet also sets the standard when it comes to assistance systems. Some of the solutions are standard features, while the options can be ordered individually or grouped together in the Parking and City assistance packages. An intelligent combination of different technologies enhances safety, comfort and efficiency. In addition, Audi is also taking the next step towards piloted driving. Playing a central role here is the adaptive cruise control (ACC) Stop&amp;Go system, including traffic jam assist. The ACC uses automatic braking and acceleration to maintain the distance between the A5 Cabriolet and the vehicle ahead. The driver can choose between five distances and adjust acceleration and system response via Audi drive select. . In interplay with the S tronic or tiptronic, it covers the entire speed range from 0 to 250km/h. The Stop&amp;Go function also brakes the car to a complete stop and lets it start off again automatically at the driver s request. The traffic jam assist relieves drivers in slow-moving traffic up to speeds of 65km/h by assuming the tasks of braking and accelerating the car, and on better roads it also temporarily takes charge of steering. The car automatically follows the vehicles ahead, within system limits. The new A5 Cabriolet comes standard with Audi pre-sense city. It monitors the road at speeds of up to 85km/h, detects both other vehicles and pedestrians, and initiates full braking in an emergency. The attention assist is also standard. It analyses driver behavior and issues a warning when it detects that the driver is becoming inattentive. The speed limiter, a standard feature, can be set to a particular speed ranging from 30km/h to 250km/h a helpful tool for maintaining speed within city limits or in construction sites, for example. The A5 Cabriolet is now available for the first time with the optional Audi virtual cockpit, a 12.3-inch TFT display with a resolution of 1 440 x 540 pixels. Together with the MMI navigation plus including 8.3-inch monitor on the centre console, it forms the central information unit. The focal point of the MMI terminal is the round rotary pushbutton. Its surface is home to the touch-sensitive touchpad which is used to input characters and also for multi-finger gestures, enabling the driver to zoom in on the map, for example. The whole MMI control logic is similar to that of a smartphone, including the intelligent free text search function. The new, more natural voice control system can recognise input made using everyday language. Customers choosing MMI navigation plus automatically also get the hardware module Audi connect which allows the vehicle to be a Wi-Fi hotspot for up to eight devices, while also accessing Google Earth Navigation and Google Street View. With the Audi smartphone interface, Apple Car Play and Android Auto bring the familiar smartphone environment to the car, if desired. The optional Audi phone box with wireless charging in the centre armrest uses near-field coupling to link smartphones wirelessly to the vehicle s antenna and enables inductive charging according to the Qi standard. For very discerning hi-fi fans, the Bang &amp; Olufsen sound system with its innovative 3D sound is also available. . The boot lid opens automatically for improved functionality. A push of a button on the remote control key or in the driver s door provides access to the 380-litre luggage compartment. If the top is open, the trunk holds a best-in-segment 320 litres. Audi also offers optional gesture control, with which the boot lid opens in response to a kicking motion of the foot. Many other high-end technologies are available, including the heads-up display, the Bang &amp; Olufsen Sound System with 3D sound, seats with a massage function and Matrix LED headlights with dynamic turn signals front and rear. . The Audi A5 Cabriolet range will be priced as follows, standard with the 5 year/100 000km Audi Freeway Plan and inclusive of all taxes: Audi A5 Cabriolet 2.0T FSI S tronic: R 689,000 Audi A5 Cabriolet 2.0T FSI S tronic Sport: R 723,000 Audi A5 Cabriolet 2.0T FSI quattro S tronic: R 823,500 Audi A5 Cabriolet 2.0T FSI quattro S tronic Sport: R 857,500 Audi S5 Cabriolet 3.0T FSI quattro tiptronic: R 1,028,000