Here comes an untold part of the story about Shukuru Kisonga who is currently receiving treatment at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) after he was found to have Sickle Cell Disease (SCD).Actually Shukuru s over-indulgence in eating the food items has to do with the instructions that the boy s parents received from a traditional healer.The traditional healer in Mozambique instructed the boy s parents that their son must take on the food items to survive or otherwise he would die of the abnormal condition.To save her boy, Shukuru s mother Ms Mwanabibi Mtenje who is a widow and a mother of four children including Shukuru, started to feed the boy as instructed by the traditional healer, hoping he will be well. He developed an abnormal condition just a few days after he was born. It started with malaria, then followed losing consciousness. I struggled to seek for medication from various witch doctors in Mozambique and Malawi to help my son, said the boy s mother, Mwanabibi.She recalled that sometimes she was forced to sleep over in the bush when she was on her way to Maputo-Mozambique seeking for a traditional healer. By the time his skin colour was changing into blue, yellow and white, I was very worried. I and my late husband started losing hope to save our child, she continued.She noted that eventually the two managed to reach a traditional healer in Maputo who instructed that the boy must be fed with one litre of edible oil, two litres of milk and one third kilograms of sugar to prevent the boy from suffering. The traditional expert told us that our son was bewitched. He said there was something in his stomach. He therefore instructed us to feed him with the food items, she said.Adding, In the beginning, we started to notice some positive changes in his body. His body became normal and he stopped complaining about pains. He was living by eating the food-stuffs, she noted.However so many years passed, the disease did not go away completely as it was expected, prompting his family to seek for further medical assistance.The boy was taken to MNH. After several medical tests at the national hospital, Shukuru s over indulgence in eating sugar, edible oil and other food stuffs was diagnosed to be linked to Sickle Cell condition, of which his parents did not know about.Expert s takeMNH specialist on blood disorders (hematologist), Dr Stella Rwezaura, on Tuesday told The Citizen that medical results showed that Shukuru had iron deficiency in his blood and that explained his eating behaviour. I have already talked to his mother about the results on Sickle Cell. He has a congenital disease. I have also instructed the mother to bring her other children for diagnosis as well, as I m afraid they might also have the disease, she said. His eyes were turning yellow and this prompted his family to seek for traditional healing. History shows that Shukuru had been taken to traditional healers, where he received alternative treatment, Dr Rwezaura added.Medical sources show that patients with SCD have a defect in a protein in red blood cells (haemoglobin), which is responsible for carrying oxygen throughout the body.Following the diagnosis at the hospital, Dr Rwezeura noted that the boy had already been prescribed with folic acid tablets to prevent him from developing further complications like anaemia.She added that Shukuru s blood and urine samples are being assessed to examine if there are other complications that require treatment.The child s mother, Mwanabibi, on Tuesday expressed her joy following the good news about the findings availed at the hospital. She requested the doctors to do whatever it takes in a bid to save her boy from the suffering.She revealed that her son has now started eating normal food like soft drinks and porridge. he is now asking me to buy him soft drinks (soda) and porridge. It has never happened before. I would like to applaud the doctors at Muhimbili for saving my child, she noted.