DStv Media Sales has admitted to price fixing and the fixing of trading conditions in contravention of the Competition Act, and agreed to an accumulative remedy of R180 million. Owned by Multichoice Group, DStv Media Sales handles commercial airtime sales and on-air sponsorship sold to over 70 Pay TV commercial channels, in addition to the two terrestrial M-Net Channels. The matter relates to a November 2011 investigation which found that, through the Media Credit Co-Ordinators (MCC), various media companies agreed to offer similar discounts and payment terms to advertising agencies that placed advertisements with MCC members. MCC accredited agencies were offered a 16.5 percent discount, while non-members were offered 15 percent. The Competition Commission said in a statement that it found that the practices restricted competition among the competing companies as they did not independently determine an element of a price in the form of discount or trading terms. The Commission said this amounted to price-fixing and the fixing of trading conditions in contravention of the Competition Act. The Commission has filed the consent agreement with the Competition Tribunal for confirmation as an order by the Tribunal. The Commission said that DStv Media Sales agreed to pay an administrative penalty amounting to just over R22 million. The company will also pay R8 million to the Economic Development Fund over three years, to enable the development of black-owned small media or advertising agencies requiring assistance with start-up capital and to assist black students requiring bursaries to study media or advertising, among others. DStv Media Sales further agreed to provide 25 percent in bonus airtime for every rand of airtime bought by qualifying small agencies for a period of three years, which is subject to a total annual airtime cap of R50 million. This Commission said this aimed to help smaller agencies participate in the market. African News Agency (ANA) ALSO READ: Malema: If you don&#8217;t know how to propose, don&#8217;t blame Nigerians For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.