They provided, again, the performance of the weekend and as a result the Kings make up a fair chunk of our team of the week. But the Lions and Sharks get their fair mentions too. 15 Rhyno Smith (Sharks) The former Pukke star continues to impress with his running lines from the back. It was his brilliant run that led to the Sharks second try. His kicking is still more reflex and thoughtful but his decision-making is promising. 14 Sergeal Petersen (Cheetahs) One of few Cheetahs to emerge with credit from a nasty defeat to the Crusaders. 90m, six clean breaks and a try points to his attacking potency but his defence needs work. 13 Lionel Mapoe (Lions) The irony is that he was well watched after scoring the Lions first try but the hallmark of a good centre is to use even limited space effectively. The Bok centre did that twice in a tight game. 12 Luzuko Vulindlu (Kings) It took years for this man to reach the potential he showed all those years ago at the Sharks. Finally, he s starting to fulfil that to an extent. A powerful presence in midfield and a fine defender. 11 Makazole Mapimpi (Kings) Wow, what an exciting this winger has turned into. If there ever was a case for the Kings to stay in Super Rugby it s the emergence of his brilliant, elusive attacker. 10 Elton Jantjies (Lions) He s shown the type of maturity in the last three weeks that could yet still make him a decent international flyhalf. Jantjies kicking has improved tremendously and his try at the death was sublime. 9 Louis Schreuder (Kings) What an astute buy this man has proven to be. Back at Province, people doubted his ability but this season it s perhaps a bit more understandable what Heyneke Meyer saw in him when he picked him for his Bok group in 2013. 8 Andisa Ntsila (Kings) Another gem to have emerged from virtually nowhere. Ntsila is arguably the best attacking No 8 in the country, with his pace and superb support play making him an ideal link between forwards and backs. 7 Ruan Ackermann (Lions) Another excellent showing from a very promising ball-carrier. The youngster was caged to an extent by the Force defenders but he repaid that in kind with 12 bone crunching tackles of his own. 6 Chris Cloete (Kings) This fetcher needs to be in a Bok group. NOW! 5 Franco Mostert (Lions) Deserves to stay a Springbok. This man is a machine, completing an incredible 17 tackles, winning all his lineout ball and carrying well. He is the glue of the Lions pack. 4 Ruan Botha (Sharks) Robust and energetic. He provided the physicality a side needs in the Argentinians backyard. 3 Coenie Oosthuizen (Sharks) It s taken ages but Oosthuizen finally looks worthy of a Springbok jersey again. He made a decisive impact 2 Malcolm Marx (Lions) He s a skilled bulldozer. What a scary prospect for opponents. 1 Ox Nche (Cheetahs) Storming performance in broken play. He burst through two defenders for Petersen s disallowed try and then ran a brilliant line for his own, legitimate try. Nche missed three tackles but at least completed five as well. Fine showing. Click here for last week&#8217;s XV. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.