Quinton de Kock dominated bowling attacks over the past year. Rather unsurprisingly then, the Proteas wicketkeeper-batter also dominated Cricket South Africa&#8217;s annual awards ceremony on Saturday evening. The precociously talented 24-year-old walked away with six accolades, including South African Cricketer of the Year. In a brilliant season for the Proteas, De Kock was an outstanding member. He&#8217;s always been a swashbuckling one-day player, as evidenced by the 954 ODI runs he scored at an average of 45.42. That haul included a magnificent 178 against Australia in Centurion. Yet De Kock&#8217;s true evolution as an international cricketer was showcased by his form in Tests. He played so many vital innings in the five-day format, culminating in 926 runs at 54.47. Combined, he scored over 1 800 international runs. It&#8217;s little wonder he was fans&#8217; Cricketer of the Year as well as Players&#8217; Player of the Year. Another notable performer was Sune Luus, who was named women&#8217;s Cricketer of the Year. The 21-year-old is rapidly becoming the national women side&#8217;s very own Jacques Kallis as he scored 4 fifties and 446 ODI runs as well as snapping up an impressive 43 wickets. That&#8217;s impressive numbers in any book. Other national awards included Kagiso Rabada winning the Delivery of the Year and Temba Bavuma winning the excellence award for his brilliant run out against Australia in Perth. Keshav Maharaj and Laura Wolvaardt were named international Newcomers of the Year in the men and women&#8217;s categories respectively. List of award winners: SA Cricketer of the Year: Quinton de Kock Test Cricketer of the Year: Quinton de Kock ODI Cricketer of the Year: Quinton de Kock T20 International Cricketer of the Year: Imran Tahir SA Players Player of the Year: Quinton de Kock SA Fans Player of the Year: Quinton de Kock Award of Excellence: Temba Bavuma Delivery of the Year: Kagiso Rabada International Newcomer of the Year: Keshav Maharaj Momentum women s Cricketer of the Year: Sune Luus Women s Players Player of the Year: Lizelle Lee Women s Newcomer of the Year Laura Wolvaardt Domestic four-day Cricketer of the Season: Duanne Olivier (Knights) Domesitc One-Day Cup Cricketer of the Season: Henry Davids (Titans) CSA T20 Challenge Player of the Season: Farhaan Behardien (Titans) Coach of the Year: Mark Boucher (Titans) Domestic Players Player of the Season: Colin Ackermann (Warriors) Domestic Newcomer of the Year: Aiden Markram (Titans) Africa T20 Cup Player of the Tournament: Patrick Kruger (Northern Cape) SACA Most Valuable Player Award: Colin Ackermann (Warriors) For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.