Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) Africa Week programme will culminate on Thursday with the celebration of Africa Day. This year s celebration will comprise two sessions that run concurrently, one at Kara Heritage Institute and the other at Freedom Park, said the HSRC in a statement. The celebration at Kara Heritage Institute will include invocation of the gods (Muphaso) at the Kara Chapel; spiritual celebration in honour of African prophets; Mapungubwe Cultural Dialogue; Muhale Day Celebration accompanied by African Musical Instruments, Lekope, Mbira and Marimba; African art exhibitions, food tasting, and live cultural performances. At Freedom Park, Minister of Science and Technology Naledi Pandor will lead a panel discussion themed: the role of data in tracking the SDGs and informing policy decisions. Minister Naledi Pandor will also release a booklet commemorating African researchers and academics. HSRC said the Africa Day Expo is part of a week long programme which began on Sunday with the inaugural PhD colloquium followed by a three-day academic conference, the 7th African Unity for Renaissance International Conference. The conference which ended on Wednesday 24 May 2017 saw more than 100 established African researchers and scholars convene at Freedom Park to deliberate on emerging theories and practice in the fields of sustainable development, science and technology, green economy and renewable energy, economics, environment and systems science. Discussions centred around the theme placing Africa firmly on the path to achieve sustainable development goals . It looked at issues that included sustainable water management, climate change and emerging trends, continental peace and security, poverty and inequality, a review of the Millennium Development Goals and African economies and sustainable development goals Academics from Ethiopia, Nigeria, Cameroon, Senegal, Kenya, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Botswana, Sudan, India, Australia and many others deliberated on these pressing issues. The HSRC was established in 1968 as South Africa s statutory research agency and has grown to become the largest dedicated research institute in the social sciences and humanities on the African continent, doing cutting-edge public research in areas that are crucial to development. African News Agency (ANA)