The leadership of the Congress of SA Trade Unions (Cosatu) is facing a likely grilling from affiliates at the federation s special central executive committee (CEC) meeting next week over their wobbling stance in the call for President Jacob Zuma to step down. The CEC, to be held on Monday, will finalise preparations for the central committee meeting, also known as a mini congress , which will be held at Irene, east of Pretoria, on May 29. Monday s CEC will be attended by the top six leaders of each union affiliate. The meeting will also do an assessment of the 2017 May Day celebrations and also prepare for a possible alliance political council meeting, said Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla yesterday. Cosatu leadership was recently sharply criticised from two of its major affiliates for inviting Zuma as a guest speaker at its May Day rally in Bloemfontein on May 1. Prior to the rally, the Communication Workers&#8217; Union and the National Education, Health and Allied Workers&#8217; Union said that as Cosatu had resolved that Zuma must step down as president of the ruling ANC and the country, he should not be invited to the federation s rally. However, the leadership did not heed the call and allowed the president to attend. But Zuma was booed by members, forcing Cosatu to cancel his speech and entire rally. On the same day, other ANC national leaders known to support Zuma, such as deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte, were also booed elsewhere. The leadership, especially the federation s president, Sdumo Dlamini, is likely to come in for sharp criticism. The federation s officials may first be questioned about their decision to invite Zuma, while Dlamini might have to explain why he attended a rally addressed by Zuma in Kliptown, near Soweto, a week earlier. The rally was also attended by some of Zuma s followers, such as Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, Duarte, ANC Youth League secretary-general Njabulo Nzuzo, ANC Women s League president Bathabile Dlamini and MK Military Veterans Association chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe. Cosatu, like its closest ally, the South African Communist Party, wants Zuma to resign over his recent Cabinet reshuffle in which he fired then finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, among others. ALSO READ: Mentor dishes dirt, says Ramatlhodi&#8217;s &#8216;Polokwane gang&#8217; will back her claims For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.