1. Dear Mr Mayor, at Randburg people are submitting CVs for metro police recruitment. The requirements include that you must be 35 years of age, have Grade 12 or NQF level 4. I have NQF level 4 from Sasseta with a security qualification. I also have experience in the security industry, but the ladies at Randburg told me that they know nothing about Sasseta. How can I make sure that I don t miss out on this opportunity of a lifetime. Nkosinathi Hadebe. The Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) recently advertised that the department is seeking 1 500 brave men and women to become protectors of the residents of Joburg. The response was overwhelming. At the time of closing the application process on May 4, JMPD had received a staggering 65 000 applications. My office contacted Mr Hadebe to advise him. Happily, Mr Hadebe informed my office that he had already successfully submitted his application. The applications will now be processed and the successful applicants will be contacted to undergo a series of tests. We wish Mr Hadebe and other prospective applicants the best of success. 2. Mr Mashaba, this is a humble request and invitation to visit our old age home to try and resolve our challenges that none of the people in charge either can t or will not help us with. We are living under strain and you are our last hope. Maureen Hassim, Maraisburg. Dear Ms Hassim, The City of Joburg is committed to assisting members of the public, particularly the elderly living in old age homes across the city. While I make every effort to engage with residents, it is not always possible for me to personally meet every resident and attend to their specific issue, try as I might. As such, I have requested the department of housing to get into contact with you to find out how we can help. You should hear from them within the week. 3. Mr Mashaba, I m on the waiting list since 1997. When you apply for a RDP house and I go to housing, they tell me I must wait, they will call me. But they don t know when because we had voted for another party. Where must I go to find out, because other people who applied in 1996 and 1997 are getting houses. Mothibi. Dear Mothibi, Sadly, many of our residents have lost trust in government due to deep-rooted corruption and mismanagement in the housing allocation process. I am, however, delighted to inform you that for the first time in the history of Joburg, I am in possession of a completed housing list, bearing the names of 152 000 residents. We are going to make this list public, so that anyone can query their position on the list, and know where they stand. 4. Dear Mr Mayor, I reside at the Eldorado Park Old Age Village. We have a lot of problems here. We report them to the municipal office but nothing is being done. An example, the grass was cut in January with the danger that it might be set alight. Who do we report this to? Phillip Davids. Dear Mr Davids, The city has committed itself to ensuring that matters addressed to our officials receive attention. Upon receiving your letter, we attempted to reach you with no success. I request that you submit an e-mail to my office with your contact details on: executivemayor@joburg.org.za. Alternatively, you can contact our regional director, Mickey Padiachee, on 011-211-8824 or mickeyp@joburg.org.za. Next week, Boyce Maneli, mayor of West Rand District Municipality, responds to your questions. ALSO READ: McBride and Phahlane stand toe to toe in parliament For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.