It s fast become one of the key dates on the calendar in Port Elizabeth and this weekend there are several reasons to head to Fairview Racecourse to take in all the action of the World Sports Betting EC Derby. The horseracing takes centre stage on the day in a battle that always seem to encourage a duel between the local trainers and the raiders from Cape Town. There s a fashion element to the day as well with fashion, textile design and graphic design students from the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University showcasing their stuff in a competition where the prizes will help further their studies. It is the first time that the value of the six prizes for this project is converted into much needed funds supplementing student accounts to contribute towards further studies. It is also the first time that both Fashion and Textile Design and Graphic Design students are working together on this project, says NMMU s Fashion and Textile Programme leader Harm Grobbelaar. For the party animals the Mixlab Triple B Festival area will play a host to a lineup of local DJs and will also boast craft beer, gourmet food and bubbly bars. Entrance to this area is R50 if tickets are bought in advance and R80 on the day. VIP tickets are R100 and there are also options to reserve tables. The Mixlab Triple B Festival area will play a host to a lineup of local DJs Pre-sale tickets are available at Something Good and Bridge Street Brewery. For those wanting to race inside the building, the HB Christian Room will host racegoers for a delectable lunch at R350 per person and this will include entertainment after the day s racing as well as cheese and wine. Call 041 372 1859 for further enquiries and to make a booking. There will also be entertainment on the day to keep the children busy which makes this a great family day out and Algoa FM will also be broadcasting live from Fairview on the day. There will also be a host of giveaways throughout the day with various prizes and vouchers up for grabs. All of these festivities will wrap up an exciting two-days of horseracing action with Friday s action including the final leg of the World Sports Betting East Cape Poly Challenge where Sir Duke from the Tara Laing stable is in line to scoop a R50 000 bonus. Friday s racing will also have a charitable angle to it with funds being raised for the Community Chest.