Several Kruger National Park (KNP) staff members were honoured at the 18th KNP achievement awards ceremony at Skukuza in the park on Friday night. There s a saying that our achievements are shaped by the strength of the foundations we set and that the foundation of excellence is built with the quality of your actions and the integrity of your intent, KNP managing executive Glenn Phillips said at the ceremony. We are all making a contribution to the business of this organisation [KNP]; the only thing that distinguishes each one of us is our individual input and the extent thereof. The KNP annual achievement ceremony is an event wherein we honour employees who excelled in their respective field of work in the past year or over a long period by showing a great deal of determination, productiveness, and good attitude to their work, he said. Awards were presented to KNP staff members who either excelled in the categories of outstanding in the workplace or outstanding service to clients in the past year or over a longer period, the KNP said in a statement on Saturday. Other awards categories presented were Lifetime Achievement Award , Bravery Award , Leadership Award , Ranger Post of the Year , Camp of the Year , Bush Camp of the Year , Department of the Year , Entrance Gate of the Year , Wilderness Trails Camp of the Year , Special Team Effort Award , Camp of the Year , Appreciation Awards , Environmental Education Contribution Award , and Managing Executive Special Awards . Total SA, which had supported the event since its inception, awarded the Total SA Top Service Award for the best performing petrol station in the park. All the finalists went through a selection phase based on a set of stringent assessment criteria. Apart from their extra mile achievements, individual nominees had to possess qualities such as independent and progressive thinking, initiative and creativity, a positive approach to work, leadership, and ability to interact at all levels regardless of training and skills. The awards for facilities were judged on areas such as overall performance, implementation of various systems, financial performance and management, guest complaints and compliments, compliance with policies, and general neatness of the facility, the KNP statement said. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.