Our learning institutions have for decades been commended for producing outstanding personalities in several fields, both locally and internationally.This is because these institutions have been nurturing students talents thereby shaping their careers.Take an example of the former Tanzania s president, Dr Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete; his role at the University of Dar es Salaam as a student leader could have to an extent contributed to his leadership journey.This is also true of Peter Mpelembwa, a passionate master of ceremonies who discovered his career in high school where he was charged with the responsibility of organising various school events. I was a cultural affairs prefect and thus responsible for preparing and organising various school events including entertainment, academic and graduation ceremonies, says 26-year-old Mpelembwa.Mpelembwa says he realised most people are so busy and lack enough time to plan for their events well. This is what drove him into event planning. I have been doing event management since 2014 having organised various events from weddings, sendoffs to corporate events, he proudly narrates.Mpelembwa who is a first born in a family of three attended Lupalama Primary School in Iringa and completed in 2004. He then joined Mbalizi Secondary School in Mbeya and then in 2009 proceeded to Wenda High School in the same region and completed in 2012.Mpelembwa joined St Augustine University Of Tanzania in 2012 and graduated in 2015 with a Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communication. He currently undertakes a postgraduate degree in the same field and institution.How it all startedSitting in his office, a tall, light skinned and slim Mpelembwa says that he was inspired by his favourite master of ceremony Anthony Luvanda who is also a motivational speaker and CEO of Home of Events. I remember I used to watch all his events on his YouTube channel, says Mpelembwa adding that he then took efforts to meet him and Mr Luvanda started mentoring him. I have so much respect for him, he is a real mentor who likes to see young people discover and use their talents for their life accomplishments, he says.With his face beaming with smile, Mpelembwa recalls the day he organised debate in school which turned out to be a successful event. Since then, he was always called upon to host events. From that day, I was required to host all events taking place at school, says Mpelembwa adding that he enjoyed such as it has become to be the means of getting his daily bread.Mpelembwa says he was anxious and nervous when he hosted his first event as a professional master of ceremony as it was a platform for him to showcase his capacity. It was a wedding ceremony which took place in Mrina Hall at Manzese, there were many people and I thought I was going to fail, but I eventually managed it well and thanked God for that, he states.From that day, he started getting several bookings such that on some days he would host two events.Although he agrees that there are many event planners and hosts in Dar es Salaam, Mpelembwa says he has an edge over them since he has very good facilitating skills. I often tend to be less talkative and more of a facilitator. You know the event is your clients so instead of talking too much, you should facilitate them so that they can do that. Time management mattersMpelembwa says that he always strives to meet the interests of his customers. He says before organising any event he must sit and listen to the event organising committee. I take my time to listen to their needs and how they want their event to be and then after knowing what they want I think of how best I can meet them by applying my experience so that they can have an event of their dream, he explains.Time management is also important to Mpelembwa saying that as an event host you are supposed to make people enjoy and not get bored thus he makes sure each event not only runs within the set time but also ends at the set time. My parents, Mr and Mrs Gerald Mpelembwa have been very supportive, says Mpelembwa adding that they have been at the forefront in making his dream come true. They have always been there to provide me with both moral and material support. I indeed pray to God to bless them with long and healthy lives. Despite the fact that event management is his priority, Mpelembwa says he also engages in other entrepreneurial activities, which can help him further his mission of establishing a company. I am in the process of establishing a company since working as an individual denies me opportunities to organise large events by large firms who prefer companies to individuals, he concludes.Email: ksaid@tz.nationmedia.com