Business Leadership South Africa (BLSA) has unequivocally condemned the reappointment of Brian Molefe as chief executive of Eskom, calling for the power utility s board to be sacked. BLSA chairperson Jabu Mabuza said five separate reports, including the public protector s State of Capture report, had found prima facie evidence of serious malfeasance at Eskom during Molefe s tenure there. Mabuza called on the government to use its powers as Eskom s shareholder to reverse this decision immediately and to replace the existing board. This reappointment makes a mockery of Mr Molefe s own words about leaving Eskom in the interest of the country and good governance. His reappointment is wilfully disrespectful of the citizens of this country, Mabuza said. Both business and government have been working to convince investors and ratings agencies that we are a country adhering to good governance, especially in respect of state-owned enterprises. This decision undermines all our efforts. Calls for the axing of the Eskom board were reiterated by the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) which said that a new, democratically accountable board be appointed with representatives from the Eskom workers and communities. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said she had endorsed the Eskom board s decision to ask Molefe to return to the utility to serve out the remainder of his contract. Molefe left Eskom under a cloud following the release of the Public Protector s report into state capture late last year. The report raised questions about his proximity to members of the Gupta family, whose company, Tegeta Exploration and Resources, is a supplier of coal to Eskom. Molefe then resigned in the interest of good corporate governance . Last month, Brown objected to Eskom s R30 million pension payout to Molefe after he applied for early retirement. Molefe would be returning at the helm of Eskom on Monday until the end of his contract at the end of September 2020 after resigning as ANC MP. BUSA says reinstating Brian Molefe undermines good governance Business Unity South Africa (Busa) has expressed grave concern over the Eskom board s decision to reinstate Molefe to his former role as chief executive given the circumstances of his resignation and his own expressed desire to clear his name. BUSA chief executive, Tanya Cohen, said in a statement that the decision by Eskom s board flies in the face of the Public Protector s report and is not in line with the expected levels of accountability and ethical leadership, particularly in such a crucial State institution. The return of Mr Molefe as CEO of Eskom is inopportune, indefensible and undermines government s messages around promoting good governance at State Owned Companies, Cohen said. Cohen said BUSA aligned itself with the concerns expressed by many South Africans about Molefe s return to Eskom, including the ruling party in this regard. BUSA views Eskom as a vital entity in the health of our country s economy and the attractiveness of South Africa as an investment destination that is supported by sustainable public finances. The ANC condemned as unfortunate and reckless the decision to reinstate Molefe as Eskom CEO and said it would seek engagement with Brown on the matter. The Democratic Alliance said it wants a full-scale parliamentary inquiry to probe the circumstances leading to, and the reasoning for, the decision to reinstate Molefe. The Economic Freedom Fighters characterised the decision as illegal and corrupt , saying the move was solely based on advancing the personal interests of Molefe as a Gupta stooge. African News Agency (ANA) People aren&#8217;t convinced the ANC didn&#8217;t orchestrate Brian&#8217;s return to Eskom For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.