Five vessel owners who ferry passengers between the Robben Island Museum and the V&amp;A Waterfront in Cape Town were on Wednesday referred to the Competition Tribunal for prosecution on charges of price fixing and collusive tendering. The Competition Commission said it investigated after it received a complaint from the Robben Island Museum against the five boat operators. The respondents to allegations are all vessels owners who provide chartering services to the Museum s clients from the V&amp;A Waterfront to Robben Island and vice versa. They are Thembekile Maritime Services, Silverbuckle Trade 21 CC t/a Yacoob Yatch, Nauticat Charters, Ferry Charters, and Tigger 2 Charters. The Commission said its investigation found that around September 22, 2015, the respondents met at the Cape Town Fish Market coffee shop, where they discussed and agreed to increase the prices they would charge the Museum when responding to a tender it issued. The tender was for bidders to be listed on the Museum s database as a preferred service providers for a 12-month period. The Commission said the investigation also found that subsequent to the agreement reached at the coffee shop meeting, Thembekile and Nauticat Charters increased their prices to R18 000 per trip for 140 passengers. The Commission said ferry charters did not alter their prices as it was already charging R18 000 per trip for 140 passengers and this resulted in all three quoting the same price of R18 000 per trip for 140 passengers. The Commission also found that Silverbuckle and Tigger 2 Charters also increased their prices as agreed during the coffee shop meeting, but not to the same extent as that of the other respondents as their vessels are smaller. The Commission said this conduct constitutes price fixing and collusive tendering in contravention of the Competition Act and it has since referred the complaint to the Tribunal for adjudication. The Commission is seeking an order from the Tribunal declaring that the five respondents have contravened the Competition Act and that they are liable to pay an administrative penalty equal to 10 percent of their annual turnover. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.