Following the Pretoria High Court s order for President Jacob Zuma to provide the DA with records and reasons for reshuffling his Cabinet in March, his legal team has now requested that the party hand over the so-called intelligence report Zuma purportedly used to fire the then finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas. According to eNCA reporter Karyn Maughan, it s unclear whether Zuma is denying the existence of the intelligence report, despite the fact that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, and other officials of the governing party and its alliance partners confirmed Zuma told them that he had read it or been aware of its contents. Later, Zuma apparently changed his stated reason for having removed Gordhan as that there was a breakdown in their relationship, a reason the ANC leadership appeared more willing to accept. Bizarrely, Zuma s lawyers now want the DA to provide them with the full report and explain where it came from. They are apparently using the fact that the DA refers to the intelligence report in their papers as the reason for demanding it from the DA, though it&#8217;s highly unlikely the DA has ever seen this report, the very existence of which has in any case always been in doubt. On March 27, Zuma recalled Gordhan and his Treasury delegation from an international investor roadshow to the United Kingdom and the United States after it was widely reported that the intelligence report, known as Operation Checkmate, alleged that the sacked ministers were plotting to remove the president from power by working with overseas investors and credit ratings agencies. Gordhan and his delegation, which included business and labour representatives, were expected to embark on a non-deal international investor roadshow at the time. Last Thursday, Judge Bashir Vally ruled in favour of the DA s urgent application after the party approached the high court on April 24 to compel Zuma to disclose the reasons for changing his executive team on March 30. On Wednesday Vally said Rule 53 of the uniform rules of the court can be applied to legal challenges to review and set aside an executive order or decision. The request by Zuma s lawyers comes as the Helen Suzman Foundation (HSF) and My Vote Counts NPC (MVC) approached the Constitutional Court to also set aside Zuma s decision to fire Gordhan and to declare that he and the National Assembly had violated their constitutional duties. Several snr ANC members based disquiet on #PravinGordhan firing on &quot;intelligence report&quot; that President&#39;s lawyers now want DA to give them pic.twitter.com/SGeEm1qKAS &mdash; Karyn Maughan (@karynmaughan) May 10, 2017 &nbsp; BREAKING: President Zuma&#39;s lawyers now demanding DA provide them with &quot;intelligence report&quot; linked to Pravin Gordhan firing -and its source pic.twitter.com/ajKZAqH61E &mdash; Karyn Maughan (@karynmaughan) May 10, 2017 ALSO READ: Helen Suzman Foundation takes Gordhan&#8217;s sacking to ConCourt For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.