There were only two local sides worth mentioning in last weekend&#8217;s round of Super Rugby matches. Appropriately then, in our team of the week, the Lions&#8217; provide attacking flair and the solid Sharks give some thrust up front. But there were a few stars that shone among the poor performers too. 15 Andries Coetzee (Lions) The Lions fullback remains one of the most consistent performers in a unit that s functioning very well. He s a rock at the back and the catalyst of many attacking movements. 14 Sergeal Petersen (Cheetahs) He s small and he might not defend all that well but this wholehearted player always gives his all. And don t think for a minute he s not skilful. 13 Jan Serfontein (Bulls) The classy midfielder made a massive impact as replacement in a poor side. In 37 minutes, he ran 87m, scored a try and broke the line three times. South African rugby is going to miss this man when he leaves at the end of the season. 12 Jeremy Ward (Sharks) The former Junior Springbok captain enjoyed a brilliant outing against the Force. His twinkle toes led to his own tries and some nifty footwork set up another. But it s his robust defence that catches the eye. 11 Courtnall Skosan (Lions) It s going to be a travesty if this man doesn t receive higher recognition soon. He is by far South Africa s best left-wing currently. 10 Curwin Bosch (Sharks) It says a lot that Springbok flyhalf Pat Lambie will have huge boots to fill when that teammate is only 19-years-old. 9 Ross Cronje (Lions) The way he controls games nowadays is immaculate. He s remarkably consistent. 8 Warren Whiteley (Lions) He doesn t even have to do magical things to get noticed. As always, this leader leads from the front weekly and doesn t mind doing the unfashionable stuff. 7 Jean-Luc du Preez (Sharks) It s crazy to think now that the Boks struggled to find ball-carrying blindside flankers last season. This 22-year-old gem is a massive presence with ball in hand and tackles like a demon. 6 Paul Schoeman (Cheetahs) He remains one of South African rugby s most underrated flankers, a man who plays with his heart on his sleeve. 5 Ruan Botha (Sharks) This former Junior Bok delivered an almost complete performance. He ruled the line-outs and made his presence count in the collisions. 4 Etienne Oosthuizen (Sharks) He worked brilliantly in tandem with his lock partner and enjoyed his freedom in broken play. 3 Wilco Louw (Stormers) This man has flourished since his move from the Bulls. He didn t have much opportunity to carry the ball but he scrummed well and defended superbly on a night when the rest of the defence conceded 7 tries. 2 Malcolm Marx (Lions) The young man continues to have everyone licking their lips over what he could become in future. One might even wonder why some are calling for the Springboks to bring back Bismarck du Plessis when they ve got this man? 1 Thomas du Toit (Sharks) Storming performance from a man touted for do great things down the line. Click here for last week&#8217;s XV. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.