Love knows no limits, right? Wrong! If you want to raise well-mannered children, you ll need to establish some ground rules. Nip bad behaviors in the bud with these easy steps.Set clear, simple limitsThink of it this way: If you leave no room for reinterpretation, you save yourself arguing later. Listen to the difference between Oh okay, you can have a cookie... (plenty of room for hope that a second one might be okay) and You can have one cookie, but don t ask me for a second one. This is it. Stick to those limits no matter whatOne really means one. It s happened to all of us: We say no to more than one cookie, and then we start second-guessing ourselves.The trick here is to take a long-term view. Maybe a second cookie would be okay just this once, but do you really want to be second-guessed every time you set a limit? That will happen if you change your story.Never give in to beggingThis one s simple once you do, you ve taught your child that begging works, right?Make your child convince you If she wants something you re not sure about, ask her to make a case for it. She wants to watch a favourite TV show? If she explains that she s put all her toys away or will take a nap first, you can feel comfortable saying yes.Require that chores get done before funYou don t do your child any favours by being a softy. Studies show that being strict on chores and responsibilities helps him develop the ability to cope with frustration. Even your toddler can do simple chores around the house, like putting away his playthings or helping you clean up messes he makes.Don t be afraid to disappointWe hate to see our children sad, but the Stones said it best: You can t always get what you want. Learning to accept disappointment will give your child important coping skills to deal with emotional stress later in life.Let them work for what they wantMany experts believe that children become spoiled when things come too easily, encouraging them to take those things for granted. If your child wants a new toy, set up a reward system for good behaviour and let him earn it bit by bit.Differences between discipline theoriesThere s no one right way to discipline.You are the true expert on what works for you and for your children. Professional advice is undoubtedly helpful, but it needs to align with your own intuition and values. It s fine to adapt philosophies and use what makes sense to you.Boundary-based discipline:Children need boundaries to feel safe. If they don t know where the boundaries are, they ll test until they find them.A toddler may test boundaries by throwing her spoon (or even her whole plate) to the floor. An older child might test limits by leaving her coloured pencils in a glorious mess on the rug or by taking an extremely long time to get ready in the mornings.Clearly communicate your boundaries: Please put my things back in my purse when you re done looking at them. If your child doesn t heedyour directions, follow through with a consequence.Make the consequence a logical fit for the behaviour. For example, if your child leaves your wallet, hairbrush, and sunglasses strewn around the living room floor, she loses the privilege to inspect your purse for a while.Give your child limited choices. Suppose your 5-year-old is loudly banging on her electronic toy piano with the volume on maximum. You respectfully ask her to turn it down. She ignores you. Offer a choice: You can either turn the volume down now, or I ll put the piano away until tomorrow. This puts the responsibility in her hands.Use natural consequences, too. If your grade-schooler forgets her lunch, don t rush to school with it. Instead, let her experience the consequences.Gentle discipline: A child can t learn much about behaviour when he s screaming and crying. He (and you) can benefit greatly from daily preventive techniques strategies that minimise opportunities for misbehaviour.Create routines so that your child feels grounded. Offer choices to give him a sense of control. Try something like, Would you like to wear the red pajamas or the blue? Give warnings before transitions: We need to leave the playground in five minutes. Frame your requests positively. For example, say, Please use your big boy voice, instead of, Don t whine. When possible, use when, then statements instead of outright no s: When we re done with dinner, then we can go outside. spills juice on the couch and the two of you decide that the solution is for her to steam clean the stain (using her allowance to pay for the steamer rental). This is a task she might actually enjoy.