Hail to the heroes, those who stand up for justice, even in forums where odds are against them. The 18 who spoke in favour of President Jacob Zuma s removal at the ANC s national executive committee (NEC) over the weekend deserve respect. Salute. They have restored the faith of millions who were beginning to think we d never get rid of the Zuptas. Now we know Zuma s grip is weakening, even within the NEC. The 18 did not know if they would succeed. But, as Johann Wolfgang von Goethe said: Courage is the commitment to begin without any guarantee of success. The Bravehearts knew any attempt to remove Zuma would be hobbled by a carrot-and-stick combination of financial incentives and threats to reveal smallanyana skeletons. The Zupta dirty tricks department is adept at throwing dirt, even where there is none to dig. Zuma s opponents are aware of other dangers. Zuma s backers abuse the state security apparatus. For example, Pravin Gordhan has faced attempts at malicious prosecution. Physical violence lurks, too. On Monday Julius Malema said the SACP should strengthen security detail around leaders who oppose Zuma. So the Bravehearts know what they are up against. And sometimes they feel afraid, but courage does not require the absence of fear. Courage confronts fear. In parliament, Gordhan may have felt trepidation but he was the epitome of cool as he exposed lies by Minister Lynne Brown-nose and the Eskom board. He demolished their attempts to defend the reappointment of Brian Molefe as chief executive. Gordhan also identified an important reality when he said: The public is becoming increasingly aware that you are abusing state property, and state resources in the name of yourselves and not in the name of the public. &#8220;This is about capturing Eskom for the benefit of the few. Indeed, public awareness is key to unravelling the Zupta kleptocracy. For a long time, those writing and speaking about this seemed to exist in a sparsely populated echo-chamber. But landmark events from the dismissal of then minister Nhlanhla Nene, to Thuli Madonsela s State of Capture report, and the Cabinet reshuffle that saw Gordhan fired built a groundswell of outrage. The momentum of last month s marches is not wasted. Since then we ve had an SA Council of Churches report about a silent coup , followed by last week s academic treatise: Betrayal of the promise: How SA is being stolen . Sunday s reports on emails linking Zuma and the Guptas to Eskom and other dealings helped many to join the dots. People know what is going on. Cosatu, the SACP, and ANC stalwarts want Zuma out. So, too, do two-thirds of South Africans, according to the latest Ipsos poll. Even within the ANC, 62% of respondents disapprove of the president. The NEC is out of step. Its call for a judicial inquiry into state capture is flawed if Zuma is allowed to appoint the judge. We saw how the Seriti commission white-washed the arms deal. State capture cannot be buried in the same manner. As long as Zuma remains in position, South Africa is in danger of suffering further looting. More Bravehearts must stand up. Now. Fortune favours the bold. DA city councillor for Joburg Martin Williams ALSO READ: Not a coup against a president, but a coup by a president? For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.