In an impressive run, Amanda Black picked up most of the top 5 awards including Best Newcomer of the Year, Best Female Artist of the Year and Best Album of the Year. Adding to her silverware is the Best R&amp;B/Soul/Reggae Album award that she won last night, making her a four time SAMA winner on her debut album. This follows having also caused a stir at this year s Metro Music Awards which took place earlier in February. Reinforcing his position in hip-hop was East Rand born rapper; Kwesta who walked away with three gongs in Best Male Artist of the Year, Best Rap Album and Highest Airplay this being over and above having received the award for Best Collaboration for his hit, Ngud, on Friday May 27 at the non-televised SAMA industry award, bringing his tally to four. Dance pair Black Motion won the Best Duo/Group of the Year and Best Dance Album. The high kicking Dr Malinga snapped the Best Kwaito Album award while crooner Vusi Nova secured the Best Afro Pop Album trophy. The star studded award show hosted by television and radio personality Somizi Mhlongo and comedian extraordinaire Tumi Morake also saw the industry pay respects to its own legends. Rebecca Malope, Don Laka and Babsy Mlangeni were honoured with Lifetime Achievement awards. International soprano Pretty Yende received the International Recognition Award for her work in opera around the world. Much to everyone s disbelief controversial recording company Mabala Noise received no awards for most of their artist, having taken into consideration their golden-boy, Nasty C who had taken the lead with five nominations prior to the ceremony. Complete list of winners: Best Newcomer of the Year Amanda Black Amazulu Best Duo-Group of the Year Black Motion Ya Badimo Best Female Artist of the Year Amanda Black Amazulu Best Male Artist of the Year Kwesta Dakar II Best Album of the Year Amanda Black Amazulu Best Maskandi Album Khuzani Inyoni yomthakathi Classical Instrumental Album Charl du Pleassis Trio Baroqueswing Vol.II Best Afro Pop Album Vusi Nova Vusi Nova African Indigenous Gospel Album Living In Christ Legends Living In Christ Legends Best Rock Album Albert Frost The Wakeup Best Pop Album GoodLuck The Nature Within Beste Kontemporere Musiek Album Joshua na die Reen Die Wereld Binne My Best Rap Album Kwesta Darak II Best Kwaito Album Dr Malinga Goodwill Best Dance Album Black Motion Ya Badimo Best Traditional Faith Music Album Spirit of Praise Spirit of Praise Vol.6 Highest Airplay of the Year Ngud Kwesta Record of the year Hell Naw Nasty C For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.