A South African Police Service (SAPS) reservist and three community patrollers stationed at Pretoria Central were arrested on Thursday in connection with kidnapping and extortion, after a man they allegedly swindled positively identified them. According to the complainant, aged 38 years old, on Tuesday at around 11am, one female dressed in police uniform and three African males dressed in private clothes approached him while he was sitting inside his car at the corner of Pretorius and Lilian Ngoyi Street, next to McDonald s in Pretoria CBD, said Pretoria police spokesperson, Captain Augustinah Selepe. It is alleged that the suspects [the police officer and patrollers] knocked at the window of the complainant s car, they then asked for his driver s license and they told him that it was a fake. He was then taken to home affairs to verify his passport and permit. The complaint was informed by the suspects that his passport was fraudulent. The man insisted that driver s licence and passport were authentic. The suspects went into the complainant s car and drove around Pretoria CBD with him, from around 11am until 4pm. They demanded R10 000 and threatened to arrest and deport him if he does not pay. At the end, the suspects demanded R3 500 and went with the complainant to withdraw money from an ATM, said Selepe. The complainant later reported the incident to police and investigations were conducted, following swift investigations by Pretoria Central detectives. The suspects were apprehended. Station commander for SAPS Pretoria Central, Brigadier Rennet Pieterse said acts of criminality by police officers were highly unacceptable. We will continue to arrest, act harshly against anyone found been involved in criminal activities, this will not be tolerated. Departmental discipline will be conducted and necessary measures will be taken to those who tarnish the name of our organisation, said Pieterse. The senior police officer urged members of the community to report criminality by police officers without fear. The four accused, aged between 25 and 32, are set to appear in the Pretoria Magistrate s Court on Friday, facing charges of extortion and kidnapping. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.