Dar es Salaam. The Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) has called on the government to address tax evasion on imported textiles and garments.It said imported products were under-declared.To avoid that it has proposed a mechanism to be introduced to accurately determine the factory costs of imports based on weight, type or fabrics, style and actual costs of imports.It has also proposed that minimum dutiable values be introduced after study and training for Tanzania Revenue Authority officials to curb the problem.CTI bemoaned that under-declaration was reducing competitiveness of domestic manufacturers. It warns in a statement that this promotes the consumption of imported textiles and secondhand clothes. What is worrying and discouraging local production and investments is that it is hard to compete with merchants who do not pay actual taxes. CTI believes under-declaration is taking place on a large scale.CTI hopes that if the problem is addressed, textiles and garments factories will thrive, with subsequent rises in government revenues.Tanzania Business Community chairman Johnson Minja rebutted CTI s claims of under-declaration. Local manufacturers are wrong. The problem is not under-declaration. What makes their products expensive and uncompetitive is the high cost of production, attributed to poor working environment. Mr Minja cited poor infrastructure, high costs of electricity, inadequate quality raw materials, tax burden and policy unpredictability as hindrances. It s cheaper to buy imported clothes than locally produced ones. In China, for instance, manufacturers enjoy economies of scale, which make their products cheaper than ours. He advised CTI to push for the government to improve the business environment for locally produced goods to compete with imported ones.He said good policies and incentives were needed to attract investors in the manufacturing industry instead of wasting time and energy on blaming importers. CTI has to convince the government to exempt start-ups from paying taxes to attract investors in the industry. Last December, the government said it lost Sh317 billion in 10 months, from January 2016, because of under-declaration of imports.When opening a five-day Tanzania Industries Exhibition here, Industry, Trade and Investments minister Charles Mwijage accused some importers of evading taxes.He said the malpractices were harming local manufacturers as such imports were sold cheaply.He said that was why the government concentrated on setting up industries to avoid imports.He called on local industrialists to invest in manufacturing and produce high quality goods.He said for products to meet minimum international standards, high capital investment was required. We need a strong information and communications technology system in tax management to address the problem of tax evasion, said Dr Donath Olomi, a business expert.