So much has been preached on how to prevent cancer, thanks to campaigns on breast cancer awareness, early detection and treatment; which are going on around the country.Experience now shows that most people know how to reduce risk factors for breast cancer, especially women.I know women who regularly perform breast self-examination; they attend a clinical breast exam annually. That s a good step in the right direction.However, there are many women who still dread of that lump in my breast scenario. The concept that all breast lumps are cancerous is one of the most common breast cancer myths, probably arising from lack of information.Well, a couple of weeks ago in this column, I talked about key cancer warnings that one should never ignore, and when it comes to breast cancer particularly, we see a lump in the breast as the one of the key breast cancer warnings. Yes it is!If you find a lump in your breast, don t panicAccording to studies carried out by the American Cancer Society (ACS), four out of five tissues sliced from the breast lumps (biopsies) are benign they are harmless and certainly are not breast cancer. In Tanzania, a similar trend in occurring; despite the lack of adequate and well-researched data to substantiate this fact.But this does not mean that we should ignore the breast lumps. When a lump noticed, precautions should be taken.In many respects, there are four different types of breast lumps classified basing on what causes them. There is one known as Fibro adenoma, which occurs most often in young women. It is usually very mobile. Then, there are breast cysts. These could occur elsewhere in the body. They are fluid-filled lumps. They occur most often in women near menopause.But now those that are cancerous are usually painless and firmer than the cysts and fibro adenomas I earlier mentioned. If the lump is painful, it is likely not breast cancer.But what causes these lumps?Some of the main causes can be normal hormonal changes, breast tissues changes, breast infection (mastitis), fatty lumps formed as a result of trauma and some medicines can cause breast lumps too.Sometimes lumps come and go in cycles or are more temporary due to injury, infection or medication. Non-cancerous breast lumps usually have smooth edges and are usually mobile when pushed against. They are often found in both breasts.What to do if breast lump is foundSince many of the benign breast lumps are strongly linked to the menstrual cycles and may appear at a certain point during the periods, one ideally needs to be aware of how breasts feel during different stages when there actually ordinary lumps.Recognising what is normal for your breasts at different times can be key to quickly identifying a lump which is abnormal.Remember! Although there is most likely no reason to worry, a breast lump should never be ignored. If in doubt, seek a clinical breast exam.