Shortly after a worried mother from Borcherds, in Western Cape, reported her 30-year-old son missing on Monday morning, May 8, the police found Jeffrey Robertson&#8217;s body in a kloof next to PW Botha Boulevard in the industrial area of George, George Herald reports. In this instance, it seems the tables were turned on the aggressor, as Robertson was fatally stabbed when he and two friends allegedly tried to rob a couple walking down the street in the early hours of Sunday. The couple was minding their own business at about 1.30am when they were threatened by the threesome. The man allegedly pulled out a knife in self-defence and lunged at the suspects who then ran away. It is believed that after a while, Robertson dropped to the ground while his accomplices continued on their way, unaware of how serious their friend&#8217;s injuries were. When he did not show up at home on Sunday during the day, his family started asking around. His two friends then came out with the truth and told his mother that he had been stabbed. The family visited the George Hospital, but he wasn&#8217;t there. By Monday morning, when Robertson still had not returned home, his mother contacted the police. READ MORE: Disabled boy, 8, stabbed several times during house robbery After the police questioned Robertson&#8217;s two friends, they pointed out the area where the failed robbery took place. His body, with three stab wounds to his left side, was found after a short search. A long knife as well as Robertson&#8217;s backpack was found on the scene and sealed in evidence bags. The police traced the couple later the same day and arrested the man. Both Robertson&#8217;s accomplices were also arrested. All three men appeared in the George Regional Court on Wednesday 10 May &#8211; respectively on charges of murder and attempted robbery. Captain Khunjulwa Sam, Conville Police communication officer, says the investigation is progressing and that statements have been obtained from eyewitnesses, suspects and complainants. Meanwhile, a bakkie towing a trailer hit Sergeant Petrus Faniso&#8217;s stationery police vehicle parked at the crime scene. At first it looked as though the bakkie was slowing down to stop at the accident scene, but then accelerated and drove off. The police tried to follow, but the bakkie and trailer had disappeared without a trace. The driver of the bakkie is requested to contact the Conville Police or Sergeant Faniso on 044 803 3305 or 084 438 4722. READ MORE: Disabled boy, 8, stabbed several times during house robbery Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.