Energy Minister Mmaloko Kubayi confirmed on Tuesday that part of the country s strategic fuel reserves were sold off on her predecessor s watch in late 2015 and said it was the subject of an investigation. Tina Joemat-Pettersson, who was fired in a sweeping Cabinet reshuffle in March, had denied a sale, saying instead that it had been a rotation of stock of the Strategic Fuel Fund. The sale caused an outcry, partly because the stock was disposed off at the low price of 29 US dollars a barrel. Briefing Parliament s portfolio committee on energy, Kubayi told MPs she was sorry that they may have cause to feel they were misled about the sale. We will have to go back and look and I hear the concern about the committee being mislead and I take responsibility and apologise for that. I apologise to members, I apologise to Parliament for that, I hope it was not intentional. I hope colleagues were either given wrong information. Kubayi said there did not appear, at this stage, to be truth to suggestions that R300 million raised by the sale had been shifted elsewhere. The Democratic Alliance said it believes that the full sale raised R10.3 billion and that R300 million had gone missing. She said the transaction had in fact been uncovered because the Central Energy Fund, which overseas the fuel fund, had noticed money had come into the accounts. I have not been briefed about any R300 million missing. The money as far as I have been briefed is in the accounts of CEF, and actually, as CEF explains it, that is how they became aware that there was a transaction, because they saw money in the account and they started asking what this money is for. She said she has asked for a full investigation on the matter and indicated that she was being briefed as it went along. I would want that process of CEF to take its course so that they can come back. If they find discrepancies in terms of what should be expected and what is in the account, then they will come back, but in terms of the report that I have, it does not speak to that, it speaks about the governance, it speaks about the process that was done. The DA s energy spokesperson Gordan Mackay pointedly asked the minister how much of the fuel stocks remained but she would not be drawn on the subject. Mackay told ANA that since the rotation referred to the full reserves, his party believed that the stock had been sold off in its entirety. African News Agency Kubayi yet to decide response to high court ruling on nuclear For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.