Family of Ndumiso Siphenuka stand by the open grave after the NPA started the exhumation, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Family of Ndumiso Siphenuka stand by the open grave after the NPA started the exhumation, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Family of Ndumiso Siphenuka stand by the open grave after the NPA started the exhumation, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles The open grave of Siphiwo Lande is seen after the NPA started the exhumation, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kavita Lakha, a forensic anthropologist for the NPA is seen climbing from the open grave of Sipho Mahala, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kavita Lakha, a forensic anthropologist for the NPA speaks to family members of Sipho Mahala at his open grave, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kavita Lakha, a forensic anthropologist for the NPA speaks to family members of Sipho Mahala at his open grave, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kavita Lakha, a forensic anthropologist for the NPA sits with workers at the open grave of Sipho Mahala, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kavita Lakha, a forensic anthropologist for the NPA hold up some of the remains found inside the open grave of Sipho Mahala, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Incense burn next to the open graves of Ndumiso Siphenuka and Makhezwene Menze, eight graves were exhumed by the NPA all of which were graves of United Democratic Front political prisoners buried in the Mamelodi Cemetery, 31 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles