If your child had his way, he d probably do his homework on the living room floor, lying on his stomach with a can of soda at his side and cartoons on television for background entertainment.How can you avoid this? Establish good homework habits from the start by setting up a homework station, a quiet, comfortable, well-lit place where your child can go to focus on the tasks at hand. Here are a few ideas on how to set up a homework area from teachers and parents.Establish a homework routine Children in first through third grades do best when they know what is expected of them, says Heather Saxton, an early-elementary teacher. Designate a room, a corner of the kitchen, or a place on the dining room table as the homework space, and be consistent about homework times. Have your children put their backpacks down in the same spot every day as soon as they come home from school, says Saxton. They ll be less likely to lose assignments or notes from the teacher if they get in the habit of doing this. Put a desk or table in the homework area. Sounds obvious, but many kids like to sprawl across their beds to work on assignments. A desk or table that s the right height for writing is important your child is less likely to doze off or get distracted if he s sitting at a desk.Remove clutterIf your child does his homework at a desk that you use too, clean up the area and put away those piles of bills and papers. If you re organised, your child will likely be, too, says Saxton. Leave enough space for your child to spread out and work without distractions or annoyances.Make the space pleasantIf the homework space lends itself to decoration, let your child fix it up with artwork or posters. Pick out colourful pencil holders and other supplies. Homework shouldn t feel like a chore at this stage, so let your child have fun with his space.Keep school supplies on handPencils, pens, erasers, paper, an assignment book or calendar, and a dictionary are must-haves. Other suggestions: index cards, glue, scissors, a thesaurus, a calculator, paper clips, a stapler. Once your child sits down to work, he shouldn t have to hunt for basic supplies.Enforce quiet time in the homework areaWhen it s time for your child to work, turn off the television and stereo. Don t talk on the phone in the same room. In fact, homework time is a good time for everyone in the family to settle down for a quiet activity like reading or writing.When is the best time to do homework?Gwynn Mettetal, a developmental psychologist and educator says it depends on your child. Some children work best right when they get home from school, before they lose focus. Others need a break such as a snack or an hour of free time before they can settle down and work again.Think about your child s personality: Does he get tired after dinner? Does he need an incentive before he ll do his homework? ( Do your homework, then you can play with your friends. ) Does he get restless after school and need to work off energy and eat dinner before he can sit still? If you don t know which time best suits your child, test a couple of routines. Try working right after school for a week; then switch to right after dinnertime. Once you find a good time, be consistent.How much is too much homework?Mettetal says more than half an hour of work each night is probably too much for second and third graders. Most educators believe 20 minutes a night is appropriate for first through third graders. Of course, some children can handle heavier workloads, but if your child comes home with close to an hour of work night after night, talk to the teacher.Maybe the work is too difficult, or your child isn t getting as much work done in class as other students.Ask the teacher how long the assignments should take, how involved you should be and if your child never has homework, find out why.Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz