The Bulls are expected to confirm a change in their Super Rugby coaching team today but the embattled Nollis Marais will still be taking the reins for the weekend match against the Hurricanes. The match is the last before the June international break and if the Bulls are going to make a change before the end of the Super Rugby competition, then it is likely to be after the Hurricanes game. We have nothing to say at the moment but we will issue something [on Tuesday]. We would like to clarify the situation as soon as possible because the fans need to see that we are doing something, a Bulls official said yesterday. As one former Bulls management member put it yesterday: As the coach, you re basically on a part-time contract and if you don t get the results then you go, that s the nature of the appointment. Marais would have little recourse in terms of labour law if he was dismissed mid-season. Marais revealed after the 51-14 drubbing in the local derby against the Lions that he knew the union was talking to other coaches and that the board had met him last week to fully appraise him of the situation. Johan van Graan, the son of Bulls CEO Barend van Graan, is the favourite to take over from Marais, even though he is about to go into Springbok camp as one of the assistants to national coach Allister Coetzee. Hard taskmaster John Mitchell has also been approached to take over a young Bulls side that has lacked direction, but whether a franchise that has had deep pockets is willing to come up with the big bucks required to buy the former Lions coach out of his contract with the USA team is doubtful. But the former All Black would certainly lay down the law at Loftus Versfeld. Historically, the Bulls have always been a great brand and they just need to turn all that gold into beautiful jewellery. When they get it right, they are the heart and soul of South African rugby and when their tails are up, they are the scariest team to play against. &#8220;The feedback from the USA team is that they love John s coaching, said a source close to Mitchell, who still lives in South Africa. ALSO READ: WATCH: The Blitzboks&#8217; awesome music video! For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.