Chris Morris brilliant Indian Premier League (IPL) campaign for the Delhi Daredevils means two things. The Proteas all-rounder clearly loves the T20 format. And secondly, he s thriving because there s a defined role for him. Also read: AB de Villiers rough time in India could be good for Proteas Morris currently ranks as one of the most valuable players in this year s tournament, having scored 152 runs at a strike rate of 164 as well as snapping up 12 wickets. Dave Nosworthy, the man who gave him his first big break at the Highveld Lions, believes South Africa can learn from Delhi before next month s ICC Champions Trophy in England. It s very simple why Chris is doing well, said the former South Africa A coach on Thursday. He knows exactly what he needs to do in every game. Delhi has made him their main strike bowler and power hitter. It sounds obvious but it s important. The Proteas have chosen a squad full of all-rounders for the Champions Trophy. That s not always a good thing for me, said Nosworthy. When you have too many options, some guys don t take responsibility. They believe the other teammate will have their back. If South Africa are going to use a few all-rounders, they need to be given specific roles. Otherwise the strategy isn t going to work. Despite the demands of the team, Morris probably also needs to be given responsibility. It s in his character. When he played his first T20 campaign for the Lions in 2012, Chris was brilliant, said Nosworthy. I was so impressed by the way he wanted to take the lead. He s not arrogant, he just has a big appetite for work. The Proteas don t need to worry about his suitability for being a senior player. While the lanky 30-year-old quick continues to show he s an ideal bowler, it doesn t mean his strengths in the shortest form of the game can t be applied to 50 overs as well. Chris will always have pace and extra bounce but when he started, he wasn t a good death bowler and lacked control, said Nosworthy. Yet he worked immensely hard on that and is now quite reliable in that regard. Chris has far more control over his bowling. And don t forget his big hitting. He s really now a 3-in-1 cricketer. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.