The Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) neared the R50 billion mark in facilitating fresh investment to businesses over the past financial year, Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel said on Thursday. It facilitated R47 billion of fresh investment, of which R15.3 billion is from its own funds and the rest from private investor partners. This is the largest yet in its history, Patel said while tabling his department s budget vote in Parliament. The investments included R4.7 billion to 77 black industrialists a 60 percent increase on the 2015/16 financial year, while black-empowered companies received R10.8 billion. Investment in youth managed businesses doubled to R2.4 billion, while investments in companies benefiting women grew sharply by 178 percent to R3.2 billion . Patel said these investments led to 20,877 jobs being created. Competition Commission to probe high data costs A market inquiry into high data costs in South Africa is on the horizon. Patel on Thursday announced he would be asking the Competition Commission to the conduct the probe. Tabling his department s budget vote, Patel cited the Economist newspaper which published a story describing data as the world s most valuable resource and a driver of growth and change. Yet the growth of this data-driven economy is constrained by high data costs, which affect users of cell-phones and laptops and businesses who require high volumes of data, he said. To promote the new data-driven economy and address high data costs, and following discussion with [Telecommunications Minister Siyabonga] Minister Cwele, I will request the Competition Commission to conduct a market inquiry into this sector and to work with other regulators to establish the facts, identify measures to reduce data costs and make recommendations to government. The inquiry follows a public campaign against South Africa s data costs, which according to studies, are among the highest in the world. Last year, Parliament held public hearings into data costs. At the time, MPs urged mobile operators to cut their costs and threatened that should they not, the National Assembly would do it for them. Patel announces R1.5 billion steel competitiveness fund Patel also announced a R1.5 billion steel industry competitiveness fund to be administered by the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). Speaking ahead of his budget vote, Patel said over the next three years the IDC would receive grant funding of R95 million from the National Revenue Fund through his department. The IDC will leverage the total R95 million allocation over three years, to create a substantial R1.5 billion fund in the form of an interest rate subsidy to normal IDC risk pricing, aimed at improving downstream competitiveness for qualifying firms in the metals and engineering sub-sectors, a note from Patel s department said. Last year AccelorMittal SA, South Africa s largest steel producer, agreed to pay a R1.5 billion fine for its role in cartel behaviour. Patel said while the competitiveness fund equalled the fine to be paid, the penalty paid made it easier for his department to argue for funds from National Treasury. The fact that AccelorMittal paid that money in, gave National Treasury a little bit more elbow room to the make the R95 million available over the next three years. The money would be used to help qualifying firms to, among others, modernise and upgrade machinery and equipment, expand the capacity of existing plants, and develop and test prototypes. According to the department, 25,000 jobs had been lost in the last year after the closure of more than 500 small and medium companies in the downstream steel sector. The fund would prioritise foundry industries, fabrication sectors, parts and component manufacturers of steel-intensive products, valve and pump manufacturers, and other steel-intensive businesses . Those who won t be able to benefit from the fund are the larger multi-national original equipment manufacturers and assemblers, integrated steel mills and those qualifying for other incentives. African News Agency (ANA) ALSO READ: Defence minister pleads for more money For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.