A medieval martial artist takes a fighting stance at the Geekfest celebration in Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A medieval martial artist puts on his equipment in preparation for a fight demonstration at Geekfest in Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Medieval martial artists fight for the entertainment of spectators during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Medieval martial artists fight for the entertainment of spectators during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia The adjudicator raises the hand of the victor after a medieval martial arts fight during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Medieval martial artists fight for the entertainment of spectators during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Medieval martial artists fight for the entertainment of spectators during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Spectators watch the start of the robotwars demonstration during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A young boy watches a robotwars demonstration during Geekfest at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia One of the many cosplayers at Geekfest takes a pose for the camera at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia One of the many cosplayers at Geekfest takes a pose for the camera at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia One of the many cosplayers at Geekfest takes a pose for the camera at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia One of the many cosplayers at Geekfest takes a pose for the camera at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Carel as Scorpio, of the many cosplayers at Geekfest takes a pose for the camera at Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Frikkie, Marinda and little Skyle as characters Aizen, Motsumoto and Kon from the anime Bleach at Geekfest in Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A martial artist demonstrates his form for spectators during an exhibit at Geekfest in Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Kendo martial artists give an exhibition fight for spectators during an exhibit at Geekfest in Montecasino, Johannesburg. The annual festival celebrates aspects of geek culture such as cosplay, martial arts and gaming. 14 May 2017. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia