The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) on Monday called for former tourism minister and party senior, Derek Hanekom, to make a public apology or resign over his comment that he was not sure whom he would vote for in the next elections. Hanekom remained an ANC MP despite four of his fired Cabinet colleagues resigning from Parliament. He also in the ANC National Executive Council (NEC) and is the head of the National Disciplinary Committee (NDC). ALSO READ: Derek Hanekom says he found out about his axing in a press release Reacting to Hanekom s comment, ANCYL spokesperson, Mlondi Mkhize, said in a statement that the youth league had hoped that the party leadership would swiftly deal with this matter. The youth league said thus far the ANC leadership seemed to have turned a blind eye to this matter. As the ANCYL we call on the ANC leadership not be tempted to let comrade Derek off the hook. It is important that we all remain disciplined in the organisation, Mkhize said. We are extremely worried because comrade Derek is an NEC member of the ANC and Head of the National Disciplinary Committee. For a person who has such responsibilities he should have known better. The ANCYL called on the ANC leadership to quickly call Hanekom to order. Mkhize said Hanekom s comment suggested that his vote for the ANC was dependent on who emerges as the ANC leadership in the elective conference this year in December. In November last year, Hanekom unsuccessfully tabled a no confidence motion against ANC President Jacob Zuma during an NEC meeting in Pretoria. Comrade Derek s comments suggest that the ANC is less important than the individuals leading it. We strongly condemn this idea of comrade Derek. There can never be an excuse for such a comment, Mkhize said. We call on the ANC leadership to demand a immediate public apology, or comrade Derek must resign from the NDC and NEC. As the ANCYL we are worried that comrade Derek s comments are going to inculcate wrong ideas in the organization and the movement at large. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa &#8216;angers&#8217; ANC KZN after deviating from campaign to address party rebels For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.