If an attempt was made to capture National Treasury, it would be very hard to come in and disrupt the culture of the finance department and align it to ill intentions . Those were the words of outgoing Treasury director-general Lungisa Fuzile while speaking at a University of Cape Town Graduate School of Business event on Tuesday evening, where he said he could not underestimate the possibility of the ministry being targeted for nefarious means, Fin24 reported. When he was asked about his views on state capture, Fuzile said it was a deeply political issue and refrained from discussing the topic while in his current role. The DG said he would leave behind colleagues at Treasury with thick skins when he steps down on Monday. When you have an institution like Treasury, it&#8217;s very hard to come in and disrupt the culture to get an entire institution aligned to ill intentions, Fuzile said. If an attempt was made [to capture Treasury], it would be disruptive, but anyone who wants to do that, I pray for their success. My colleagues have thick skins. Fuzile announced his resignation in April after eight years in his role following the sacking of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and Mcebis Jonas from the department. He said he had no regrets about leaving the department after almost two decades. I am ready to try something else with a clean conscience I don&#8217;t have regrets: after 19 years, I will be very happy to watch government from outside, he said. He also said he believed Treasury would continue to perform its functions in government well. To change such people or to make them think the Constitution or the PFMA [Public Finance Management Act] does not matter, to rewire them to think sound fiscal management belongs in the dustbin; it&#8217;s hard to imagine that happen. ALSO READ: Gigaba grilled on views of advisor Chris Malikane For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.