Concerns about the future of the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) were unwarranted and premature , the National Lotteries Commission (NLC) claimed yesterday, despite confirming limitations had been placed on funding for multi-sport games. In line with changes to the Lotteries Act, the NLC said grants could be offered only for activities in South Africa, and a cooling-off period between payments had been applied to prevent NGOs dependency on Lotto funding. While Sascoc chief executive Tubby Reddy had said the cooling off period would prevent the Olympic body from submitting an application this year after receiving its last grant of R70 million in June 2016, the NLC revealed the organisation would be able to apply again for funding next month, provided it produced an outstanding report on the previous payout. Reddy also claimed Sascoc was in danger of closing its doors within the next 10 months, with the NLC limiting the Olympic body to R5 million a year, matching the caps placed on national federations. The NLC, however, denied the claim and insisted it still recognised the organisation as the nation s macro sports body. There would nonetheless be restrictions placed on Sascoc, which could affect its mandate to deliver SA teams to international competitions, with legislation preventing requests for funding of athletes and teams competing overseas in the build-up to events, as well as international camps. The new regulations do not make provision for activities outside the borders of SA, the NLC confirmed. However, preparation and participation within SA would be available within the applications submitted. Reddy said Sascoc was struggling to garner corporate support, admitting the Olympic body relied almost entirely on NLC funding. But the Lotteries body said not-for-profit organisations would need to find ways to design budgets and cut costs to manage limited funds. ALSO READ: Sascoc&#8217;s future a lottery For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.