Civil rights organisation AfriForum has asked Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to launch an inquiry into the credibility of emails allegedly detailing the role of the Gupta family in running South Africa. Monique Taute, head of AfriForum s anti-corruption unit, said: If the emails are credible they will serve as proof that state capture did indeed take place and that President Jacob Zuma is in charge of a corrupt government. Taute said this would once more prove why it was important to institute a commission of inquiry concerning state capture. In the letter to the public protector, AfriForum requested that an investigation is undertaken into the authenticity of the e-mails that were published by the Sunday Times, City Press and Rapport on Sunday, May 28. AfriForum encouraged the public to support the request by sending an SMS with their name to 45352. Taute said the e-mails show: The Guptas had Nazeem Howa, CEO of one of their companies, prepare notes for Collen Maine, the ANC Youth League president, advising him on how to respond to media questions; Mosebenzi Zwane s CV was sent to the Guptas a month before he was appointed minister of mineral resources. They had staff coach Zwane on how to handle media conferences, including questions about his relationship with the Guptas. He flew to Dubai on a Gupta jet and they paid for his accommodation; The Guptas received confidential info on a Cabinet meeting from Faith Muthambi, former communications minister; The Guptas arranged for Daniel Mantsha, Denel director, to be chauffeured around Dubai, and paid for a deluxe suite for Matshela Koko, who was later appointed as acting CEO of Eskom, at the Oberoi Hotel in Dubai; When Rajesh Naithani was let go as an SAA board member in October 2014, he sent an e-mail to Ashu Chawla, CEO of Gupta company Sahara Computers, asking him to tell Tony Gupta to get me in at Transnet ; and The Guptas were central to a scheme for Zuma and his family to acquire residency in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. Zuma has denied the claim, saying his only home was in Nkandla. Public protector spokesperson Oupa Segalwe was unable to confirm they had received the letter. ALSO READ: Mantashe: NEC wants Brown to rescind Molefe&#8217;s Eskom appointment For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.