Stress can not only affect you in a negative way psychologically, but cause various physical issues as well. In fact, stress also negatively affects your oral health.You re probably aware of what stress does to our bodies, it can cause anxiety disorders and panic attacks, and lack of sleep which can lead to irritability. But stress and oral health is an entirely new ballgame for most people.Unfortunately, our mouths have just as much of a chance of being affected by stressful situations as our bodies and minds do. There is a strong link between depression and anxiety with dental problems.How does it effect Tooth grinding: stress commonly triggers the grinding, clenching of teeth during the night. It can lead to jaw disorders, headaches, chipped or damaged teeth and other dental problems. Gum disease and infections: stress lowers the immune system, putting the body at risk of developing infections. The likelihood of developing gum disease or gum infections is increased when under stress. Dry mouth: anxiety and stress often result in a dry mouth, which has a negative impact on oral health. Saliva helps to wash away residual food particles and bacteria that can cause tooth decay. Burning mouth syndrome: this syndrome is characterised by an unpleasant burning sensation on the tongue, lips, gums or palate. It can be caused by psychological factors brought on by stress. Temporo-mandibular joint disorder: this painful disorder affects the jaw and is characterised by chronic jaw pain, headaches and stiff movement of the jaw. Stress contributes to the onset of this disorder in a number of ways. Tooth grinding is a common cause as is anxiety and depression. Canker sores: these are small spots with a white or grayish base colouring that have red borders. They appear inside the mouth sometimes in pairs or in larger numbers. While researchers are not sure exactly what causes them, they have been known to be linked to stress. Stay away from foods and drinks with a high acid content such as tomatoes, citrus fruits and chili. Most canker sores disappear within ten days. Cold sores: the Herpes virus causes these and breakouts are common when you are under stress. Over-the-counter medication can help heal unattractive cold sores. Lichen planus: this condition is characterised by ulcers, sores and white lines appearing in the mouth. It is caused by a viral infection that the body is more susceptible to when stressed. Other risk factors: Patients who are under stress tend to neglect their oral hygiene routines. Poor diet is also a result of stress, sugary and carbohydrate-laden foods that promote tooth decay might be consumed on a more frequent basis when we are busy or depressed.What should you do?If you re feeling stressed, don t forget about your dental health. Take the time to focus on your oral hygiene regimen, and don t use the solace of smoking or alcohol to relieve stress. These habits are highly addictive, and they have damaging effects on your oral cavity.Instead, take proper measures to reduce stress in your life, such as eating well, exercising, yoga, meditation and getting plenty of sleep.If you suffer from extreme anxiety or depression, seek professional help. If you re worried that stress is affecting your teeth or gums, see your dentist. Your dentist will suggest the treatment options depending on the cause.