Gangsters and corrupt police officers were threatening South Africa s sovereignty and national security, police minister Fikile Mbalula said on Tuesday. Briefing media ahead of his budget vote, Mbalula said in some instances gangs took ownership of communities and this resembled a military coup. It threatens national security if our communities will be in the pockets of gangsters and at the mercy of gangsters meaning these people can conduct a coup d tat, the minister said. Gangsters come and own communities and they become minister of social development and give out money to communities in Mitchell s Plain, in surrounding areas they even have got stands. They call themselves generals, he said Mbabula said the greed and power of gangsters needed to be challenged by police. We say to our people don t protect gangsters but we understand our communities are under siege and it is our responsibility to ensure that we unshackle our society from the fear and the greed of criminals and gangsters. He warned that unlike in the Brazilian favelas (slums), there were no no-go areas for police. Here in South Africa there is no thug or gangster that can stop us from searching them. But, Mbalula warned corrupt elements in the police had to be rooted out, or the threat to national security would remain. Some of our police force members are accused of being in the pockets of the gangsters. It s a problem for national security because we can be turning this way fighting crime then there are those who will be collaborating and undermining our efforts because they are in the hands of the police, he said. In no time crime becomes business, you become rich just by collaborating with criminals that s the matter I whisper to the deputy minister every day. Who bought you these shoes? Is it still within budget? No woman to be turned away at SA s police stations Mbalula Mbalula also declared that no woman reporting abuse should be turned away from a police station and at the same time recounted how as a young boy he watched one of his sisters being abused by her boyfriend. Shortly before tabling his department s R87 billion budget in Parliament, Mbalula told reporters at a media briefing that he would be meeting with police commanders across the country to ensure that specialised units are set up to deal with women reporting rape and abuse in a sensitive manner. In addition, women would be advised not to withdraw charges against their aggressors. If you have reported the case, judgement must be made by the prosecution or the investigating officer about whether or not such a case has the merits to be withdrawn or not, he said. Women are not always in a position to make a rational judgement. Probably you are dependent on this person. You are vulnerable by virtue of just being dependent on somebody, materially and otherwise. The minister cautioned women against listening to family and friends who advise them to resolve the matter without police intervention. Today you are being klapped [slapped] and you put up with it. Tomorrow, you are being kicked and you put up with it, and then tomorrow you are being shot and you put up with it and the families come in and say this matter can be properly resolved between families and you put up with it and the last is the trigger, you die African News Agency (ANA) ALSO READ: WATCH: My sister was beaten so badly that she became paralysed &#8211; Mbalula For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.