AFRI-RES, a unique facility to support climate proofing of Africa s long-lived infrastructure investments, was given significant impetus with the formal approval of funding of 5 million Euros by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) for its programme activities, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) said in a Tuesday press release. AFRI-RES, an Africa-based facility, is aimed at strengthening the capacity of governments and institutions including river basin authorities, regional economic communities and power pools as well as the private sector to plan, design, and implement infrastructure investments that are resilient to climate variability and change. Conceived as a partnership between the World Bank, the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the African Union Commission (AUC), it will promote the integration of climate change considerations into the planning and design of long-lived infrastructure investments in Africa such as in the implementation of the continent s Programme for Infrastructure Development (PIDA) and other regional, sub-regional or national programmes of strategic relevance. The infrastructure projects identified in PIDA require investments of at least US$360 billion by 2040, with approximately US$70 billion needed by 2020. According to the World Bank s 2010 Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic report, the cost of meeting Africa s infrastructure deficit is around US$ 93 billion per year, including about US$ 30 billion for maintenance. Most of these investments will be in support of long-lived infrastructure in sectors that are sensitive to climate change and variability such as energy, water, transport and agriculture. A central function of the organisation is to facilitate interaction between policy makers, financiers, project developers, and scientific and engineering experts in order to develop and mainstream new practices that deliver climate resilient infrastructure in Africa. Abdalla Hamdok, Acting ECA Executive Secretary said: Fit-for-purpose infrastructure is essential for the socio-economic transformation of African economies and attaining regional integration . He said with a huge infrastructure deficit, Africa has the opportunity to adopt a new climate economy approach to meeting its development agenda, supported by quality infrastructure that is resource efficient, safe, resilient to climate change and uncertainty, as well as being transformational. AFRI-RES will help ensure that climate resilient investment practices are adopted by different financiers active in Africa, thereby boosting the share of overall development financing for Africa with resilience co-benefits. It will also provide project-level technical assistance for climate resilience assessments in pre-feasibility or feasibility studies, climate risk management actions in the structuring of public-private partnership agreements or contracts.