Carry On Alice might be five now, but she has got stronger and quicker with age and the Captain Al mare could score the Computaform Sprint double when the race is run on Champions Day at Turffontein tomorrow. Trainer Sean Tarry&#8217;s charge might have beaten a slightly substandard field of sprinters in the R1-million Grade 1 race over 1000m last year, but that was not the case in the Cape Flying Championship at Kenilworth on Sun Met Day when she took command inside the final 400m and held on to win a gutsy race. She beat her stable companion Trip To Heaven that day, with the Trippi gelding flying late and failing by only a long neck. However, he never jumps on terms and a slow start could scupper his chances again. He has run second in all three of his races over 1000m and could well keep that record intact, coming in off a rest and with top-notch Anton Marcus in the saddle for the first time. Jo&#8217;s Bond was 1.15 lengths behind Carry On Alice in third in the Cape Flying Championship, with Talktothestars, Brutal Force and Rivarine further back. Carry On Alice was impressive in her pipe-opener for this race, making all and beating Trophy Wife without really being asked a question. She&#8217;ll be ready for this big test and will fight out the finish. A part from Trip To Heaven, a few other horses could swoop late to give her a fright, including Jo&#8217;s Bond, Elusivenchantment, Brutal Force and Rafeef. Jo&#8217;s Bond tried to steal a march on the field in the Cape Flying Championship but was outgunned late. Jockey Richard Fourie did not make the same mistake next time, allowing Elusivenchantment to lead before swooping late, despite a slipped saddle. Jo&#8217;s Bond swept past her rival to win by a length. Both runners should be in the Computaform Sprint fi ring line. Brutal Force&#8217;s Cape Flying Championship run was an aberration but came after a one-year layoff and he has since made up for that flop with two good wins in Pinnacle races. Worryingly, he did not stride out in last time out and might find the Highveld going a bit hard on his legs. Rafeef tries 1000m for the fi rst time in his career after running some good races over 1400m and 1600m recently, but assistant trainer Mathew de Kock says he is showing good speed in his work and warns punters not to pass him by.