Whether it is movies, health practitioners or cigarette packs, you have most likely heard and read several times that smoking and chewing tobacco products can have a serious impact on your health.But what does smoking actually do to your oral health?Here are reasons why smoking is one of the most destructive habits when it comes to your teeth and the serious health risks that come with it.1. It can lead to oral cancerThe chemicals found in tobacco products have been cited as a leading cause of many cancers affecting mouth, lip, tongue, gums and throat.There are numerous chemicals found in tobacco smoke, including several known to cause cancer. Oral cancer can take many forms that includes unexplained bumps, bleeding gums, swelling, numbness, pain, and difficulty in swallowing.2. Tooth falling due to gum diseaseSmoking causes decreased levels of oxygen in the blood leading to a weakened immune system and leaves your mouth vulnerable to infection.This means that bacteria found in your mouth can easily build-up and infiltrate your gums. The bacteria can quickly destroy gum tissues, causing it to recede and become loose and unhealthy.3. Cavities are inevitableIf you smoke, you re putting your mouth at risk for three times as many cavities as those who don t. Because the chemicals in tobacco products weaken the tooth s protective enamel, teeth become more susceptible to bacteria, acids, and other destructive substances.4. Teeth become sensitiveBecause smoking weakens or erodes tooth enamel, smokers teeth are often vulnerable and can become extremely sensitive to hot and cold temperatures. This can be quite painful and very restricting when it comes to food and drink.5. No surprise that smokers develop bad breathSmokers have bad breath and it s not the kind you can get rid of with a quick breath mint or chewing gum.Many chemicals pass through your oral cavity every time you smoke and many of them end up collecting on the surfaces inside your mouth. Smoking also contributes to bad breath by drying out your mouth, which can trigger gum infection and even irritate your sinuses.6. Yes, it leaves stains on the teethSmoking is well known for the yellowing effect it has on teeth. This discolouration is actually stains left by the nicotine and tar found in cigarettes and other tobacco products.Over time, this discolouration can seep into tiny cracks in the tooth enamel. That means that after several years of smoking, the staining may well be permanent.7. Smoking delays healingOne of the other effects of smoking is the change in the immune response after a tooth extraction or other oral surgery.8.Sensations begin to alterUse of tobacco products over a long period of time may result in altered taste and smell sensation.Tobacco users should visit their dentist regularly to have their oral health monitored closely.It s important to keep in mind that the only truly effective treatment in restoring the health of a smoker s mouth is to stop smoking.It usually takes few trials to quit before you completely stop smoking.Consult with your dentist or physician about nicotine replacement therapy.The author is a dentist based at the Dental Studio in Mbezi,Dar es Salaam.