Source Africa, the fifth African Textile, Apparel and Footwear Trade Event commenced on Wednesday at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC). The two-day trade show is a platform for African textiles, apparel and footwear to showcase their work to potential buyers from the international community. Over 150 exhibitors from different African countries are exhibiting their products at the Source Africa trade show in the city. During a media briefing at the CTICC, US Agency for International Development Southern Africa (USAID) acting mission director Alonzo Wind said the trade show was the most important event of its kind on the continent. He said the trade show has impact on the apparel sector, which employs hundreds of thousands of people and generates significant economic impact. Speaking to African News Agency (ANA), Wind said USAID has been involved with Source Africa since it first started. It is a homegrown initiative that focuses on buyer sand sellers. This platform is just one aspect of what we try to do in targeting most of Africa through bilateral missions and regional support. Wind said that USAID invested US300 million in South Africa each year. Countries represented at the trade show this year included Botswana, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mauritius, South Africa, Swaziland, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya and Swaziland. Wind mentioned that the recent 10-year renewal of the US Government trade preference programme, the African Growth and Opportunity Act offers many African producers the opportunity to export thousands of products including apparel, textiles and footwear to the US market with duty savings of up to 35 percent. These savings mean that leading US apparel and footwear brands and retailers are increasing sourcing from the region and taking advantage of savings on both labour and duty rates . Job creation is at the heart of Source Africa said Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) senior dealmaker Mark Goliath who told ANA that the IDC has from the beginning, been a sponsor for Source Africa to showcase African clothing and textiles, and to show that Africa can be a source to the rest of the world . Goliath mentioned that they hoped to soon reach the point where it would become the premier trade show for African manufacturers and attract visitors. Africa is still not seen as a source for clothing and textiles, and we want to change that, he said. Source Africa is more than a trade show, it s an opportunity for Africa to grow as a leading clothing and textile source. Our investment in Source Africa is through sponsorship, he said. It is very important for us to have a presence here to show South African entrepreneurs and businesses that the South African government supports them. He mentioned that one of their key sponsorship partners was Enterprise Mauritius, as Mauritius has an entire government department dedicated to their country s textile and manufacturing sector. Goliath said that future plans for growing Source Africa further included transforming it into a conference and exhibition show with panels of speakers speaking on various industry related topics that empowers delegates with knowledge. Wind told ANA that as the trade show grew, there was an increase in the number of women-owned businesses being showcased. USAID Southern Africa acting mission director Alonzo Wind speaks about the fifth Source Africa African Textile, Apparel and Footwear Trade Show 2017 during a media briefing at the at the Cape Town International Convention Centre in Cape Town, South Africa while Industrial Development Corporation senior dealmaker Mark Goliath listens to him. Picture: ANA / Jabulile S. Ngwenya Wind spoke to ANA about USAID s involvement with the youth through initiatives such as the Young African Leader Initiative (YALI). Launched in 2014, the Mandela Washington Fellowship is YALI s flagship program. It brings up to 1,000 African civic, business and community leaders aged 25 35 for six weeks of academic coursework, leadership training and networking at U.S. universities. Wind mentioned that currently in 2017, up to 2,000 young Africans are involved in the initiative. YALI takes in applications from the Mandela Washington Fellowship and Wind also spoke about YALI s Regional Leadership Centees which work closely with the University of South Africa (UNISA). These centres are located in East, West and Southern Africa. The aim is to foster young African leaders through civic leadership and public management, Wind said. Each Regional Leadership Center is run as a public-private partnership between the industry experts and knowledge production from African and American Universities. The Source Africa African Textile, Apparel and Footwear 2017 trade event runs from 24 to 25 May. African News Agency (ANA) ALSO READ: General Motors rebuffs allegations of acting in bad faith For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.