When Tanzania unveiled its Dar es Salaam Rapid Transport Buses (DART) in May last year, many people were seen lining up on the sales windows to process their tickets as they yearned for the first ride on the blue buses, but for Ms Zainabu Yusuph, 47, a resident of Mbezi in the city, the story was totally different she was scared of the buses.For Zainabu, an attempt to board the buses amounted to endangering her life. Why? She harbours panicking memories of similar vehicles which she used to board in the past. In the late 80s, when I was a Form One student at Kisutu Secondary School in Dar es Salaam, we used to travel on some long buses which were popular as Hekalus by then. I have not forgotten the way I used to feel dizzy as the buses could move while oscillating on sideways, she tells Your Health.I nearly used to faint. It felt like the bus was connected to a pipe that would easily fracture off and cause an accident anytime, recalls Zainabu as she reveals to Your Health saying, until today, My children and co-workers usually laugh at me when I tell them that I can t board the rapid buses because I fear them. Zainabu s fear is similar to that of Mr Hoclay Ontario, a Dar es Salaam resident who admits that he never uses an escalator when moving up in a storey building.Mr Ontario says he usually walks up the stairs. He fears heights, especially when he steps on a moving stairway but his fear has been compounded by his high blood pressure condition. I was diagnosed with High Blood Pressure. So, when I use the escalator I feel dizzy. But I have had an underlying fear even before I doctors told me of my blood pressure problems, says Ontario.Psychologists say Zainabu and Ontario s situations are known as phobias some extreme form of fear triggered by a particular situation (such as going outside) or object (such as spiders), even when there is no actual danger.Mr Novelty Deograthias, a behavioral psychologist based in Dar es Salaam tells Your Health during an interview that phobia is one of the psychological problems facing people not just today the history of phobias is as old as mankind.He differentiates between the usual fears that are commonly experienced from phobias though. Many people have fears about particular objects or situations. This is perfectly normal, he begins. Fear turns into phobia when it lasts for more than six months, and has a significant impact on how one lives his/her day-to-day life, says the psychologist. People with a phobia may acknowledge that their fear is out of proportion but they can t control it, he points out and warns that if a victim of phobia does not take steps to overcome the unfounded fear, it can last for years and become disabling. It can cause considerable disruption to their daily lives - and those of their families. For example, one who is phobic, knows it too well that it s safe to be out on a balcony in a high rise block, but feels terrified to go out on it or even enjoy the view from behind the windows inside the building, he points out. People with social phobia have no confidence with people they do not know, and fear that strangers are being overly critical of them. They may also fear that they will behave in an embarrassing way, such as blushing or shaking in public, he adds. He terms this as social phobia.Mr Novelty says further that in some cases, social phobia may lead to alcohol indulgence, as some people with social phobia feel they need a drink to keep nerves calm before any social event. Some people with this disorder may develop a particular fear of eating in public, or of any encounters with the opposite sex, he explains to Your Health. Likewise, one may know that a spider isn t poisonous or that it won t bite him/her, but this still doesn t reduce the fear. Types of phobiaExperts have categorised phobia into three types agoraphobia, social phobia and specific phobias. A victim can know the type of phobia affecting him/her depending on the personal experiences they go through.One who suffers from agoraphobia (social anxiety disorder), has a generalized fear of leaving home or a small familiar safe area for fear of possible panic attacks.This, according to psychology sources, is caused by various specific phobias such as fear of open spaces, social embarrassment, fear of contamination (such as germs) or (post-traumatic stress disorder) related to a trauma that occurred out of doors. It often starts in late adolescence and early adulthood.Whereas, people with specific phobia have an excessive and unreasonable fear in the presence of a specific object, place or situation they fear animals, insects, heights, thunder, driving, public transportation, flying, dental or medical procedures and elevators, such is Ontatrio s story the man who fears using escalators.But what actually causes phobia?According to experts, phobia can be caused by environmental and biological factors. The environment, according to Mr Novelty, can be seen to cause phobia when for example, a person gets involved in phobic situation by seeing others who suffer from phobia.For instance, he says, watching TV news which exposes a walking person using a knife to kill innocent people in the same street you are residing in during the midnight, may cause the fear to walk at night.There is also the biological aspect. This can be explained in terms of how the brain processes the frightening stimulus or information that a person is exposed to.This mainly happens in the part of the brain known as the insular cortex; which is involved emotions processing; by detecting and interpreting threatening stimuli. Hormonal reactions of the body are also known to play part.How will I know I have phobia?According to psychologists, most people have no symptoms of phobia until they are faced with a situation. When they are confronted by this, they show severe symptoms of phobia.The symptoms can be so unpleasant that the person takes elaborate steps to avoid coming into contact with their feared object.Symptoms of phobia include but are not limited to, fast breathing and choking sensations, feeling dizzy, chest pain or tightness in the chest, sweating and hot or cold flushes.How do I cope with phobia?There are a myriad ways that can be used to help a person with phobia. The following are very important ways:Self-help for phobiasThe personal motivation to expose oneself to the feared object and to tolerate the fear is the most important ingredient of treatment. Some people find that they can do this on their own, perhaps with the help of books and other support, including that from friends and family.Professional counseling treatmentSome people find it useful to discuss how they have altered their lifestyle to cope with a phobia, and the adjustments they have made to avoid the feared situation. Many people, however, still need the help of professional trained counselors to treat phobias.Exposure therapyExposure therapy involves starting to confront the fear and stopping to avoid it. When exposed to the feared object or situation, the person is taught to tolerate their high levels of fear. After 30 minutes or so, anxiety levels naturally fall.The body cannot keep up this highly-aroused state when there is no logical reason to be frightened. People learn to conquer their fears by gradually learning that no catastrophe befalls them during exposure.The degree of exposure is increased gradually. For example, for someone with a bird phobia, this would start with looking at photographs of birds. This would move on to handling feathers, to going to areas such as a duck pond and feeding the ducks or eventually even helping to clean out a friend s birdcage and handling the bird in the process.It may be helpful for a friend or relative to get involved in the treatment. If a professional is involved, a friend could attend some of the sessions or help with homework or practice exposure.Relaxation trainingThere are exercises to reduce symptoms of phobia. Relaxation training includes breathing exercises and muscular relaxation. For some people, it can be a useful addition before a behavioral therapy programmer by providing skills that help reduce phobia when exposed to the feared object. However, relaxation training alone is not enough to treat a phobia.MedicationDrugs are rarely used to treat phobias, though if the person has an associated condition, like depression, this may be treated with medication. But the medications must be prescribed by a licensed medical doctor.Therefore, it is recommended that once a person has a phobia, s/he better must use the multiple coping ways instead of relying on a single way of getting rid of phobia.(Additional information from Agencies)