Need some last-minute ideas to celebrate Mother s Day on Sunday? There is no shortage of options in Johannesburg. BUBBLING OVER AT THE MASLOW The Maslow Hotel in the heart of Sandton has partnered with champagne house GH Mumm to celebrate Mother s Day. On Sunday, The Maslow is inviting sons and daughters to win over their mums with real bubbles this Mother s Day, instead of bubble baths. The executive chef has designed a buffet lunch that is perfect for a champagne celebration. On offer will be a choice of tantalising entrees and delicious main courses. This will include favourites like mustard-crusted beef sirloin with roast garlic gravy, pan-fried line fish medallions with sauce vierge, Mexican braised beef shin with rustic charred salsa, chicken thigh tandoori with traditional condiments, crispy pork belly with caramelised apples and vanilla veloute and garlic and almond stuffed leg of lamb. Maslow guests can look forward to enjoying a complimentary drink on arrival and live entertainment throughout the day. Mums will be spoiled with special gifts from from GH Mumm and Africology. For more information visit suninternational.com/maslow. MOTHER S DAY CONCERT AT THE ZOO Featuring epic live acts Watershed, Louise Carver, Vusi Nova, Bongani Radebe, Brent Harris and the Jam, Jono Johansen and the Cool Catz, the Hot 91.9FM Mother s Day Concert will entertain the whole family. The Mother s Day Concert at the Joburg Zoo, brought to you by HOT91.9FM, in association with e.tv and the City of Joburg, kicks off at 10am on Sunday and ends at 3pm. It takes place at Centenary Lawn &amp; Lion Club Fountain. Tickets are on sale from nutickets.co.za. GET GEEKY GeekFest is coming to Montecasino this weekend. It caters for a multitude of alternative lifestyles and embraces all that is technological, mechanical, mystical and magical. Inspired by popular comic and pop culture events and conventions in the United States and Europe, GeekFest South Africa is proud to host this annual festival. The Dark Carnival, who are the organisers of the fifth annual GeekFest in Johannesburg, invite everyone to embrace their inner geek. Highlights this year include a Robo Wars Tournament (with amazing prizes) Larp (live action role playing) and a massive geekthemed market. Craft beer and awesome food will be available. GO CLASSIC Or you could treat mom to a great selection of classics at the Brooklyn Theatre this weekend. Salon Music presents Caf Wien with selected members of the Gauteng Philharmonic Orchestra. It will transport you to the heart of Vienna, featuring work from Mozart and Haydn. Oboe soloists include Johan Ferreira and Olivier Barrier, conducted by Jaco van Staden. Saturday s show is at 6pm, with the Mother s Day show at 3pm. Tickets are available from R100. For more information visit brooklyntheatre.co.za. ALSO READ: Kenny Kunene welcomes baby Mokgethwa For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.