I am often amazed how some punters stay out of work riders events but if you look at the results over time, they tend to follow form. Riders like Samuel Mosia and Francis Semela get some good rides and make the most of them so it comes as no surprise they look likely to fight out Leg 3 of the Work Riders Challenge at Turffontein tomorrow. They go into the final with Mosia on 77 points and Semela on 64. It would take something phenomenal from third-placed Goodman Dadamasi, on 38 points, to win the Challenge. At stake for the winner is R20,000, with R10,000 going to the runner-up and R5,000 to the third-placed rider. There is also another R5,000 prize for the winner of Leg 3. Semela does not have a ride in Race 1 so Mosia should get a chance to extend his advantage if unraced Pera Palace has any ability. Mosia also has the edge in Race 2 on likely favourite Bono. But Semela has the opportunity to make a comeback in Race 3 on Gotoluvher and Houston Rocket in Race 5. The meeting is heading for a thrilling showdown! The Work Riders Challenge was introduced in 2008 by Phumelela, the Racing Association and the Thoroughbred Horseracing Trust and run by former champion jockey James Maree. The Work Riders Challenge was introduced in 2008 by Phumelela, the Racing Association and the Thoroughbred Horseracing Trust and run by former champion jockey James Maree. A good showing from Sir Duke in today s final leg of the WSB East Cape Poly Challenge (Non-Black Type) at Fairview will guarantee him the R50,000 consolation bonus. No runner can win all three legs but there is a consolation bonus to the horse who earns the most points over the three legs. That has left Tara Laing-trained Sir Duke almost unstoppable in his quest to collect the windfall. He was runner-up behind Juan Two Three over 1200m and then sneaked in front of Peach Delight to win the second leg over 1400m. Sir Duke has not won over 1600m on the Polytrack but has placed in all three starts over the course and distance. Callan Murray is in the irons. Justin Snaith saddles Jet Explorer who is unbeaten in two starts over the course and distance. With Piere Strydom in the irons for the first time the eightyear- old son of Jet Master is likely to keep his unbeaten record. Although under sufferance under the race conditions Our Icon could take third place.