As an author, people have asked me the obvious questions, How do you write so well? Where do you get the words ...? The former question is often answered with sincere modesty; the habit of those who are ever pressing beyond themselves to attain excellence. Thanks, I would say. You may write as well or even better with practice. Presuming the latter question to be redundant, it is usually ignored. Practice, the least appreciated word of any. It takes practice to do anything well. But since our present discourse has to do with writing, let s stick to the topic. We may discuss other interests later.I took up the habit or writing several years ago when a high government official in Bermuda having read something that I had written suggested that I consider writing as a career. For two reasons , he had said. First, the obvious, providing books. And the other, not at all obvious, is personal and has no importance in this discussion. Suffice it to say, I heeded the advice, and satisfied both reasons.Within a year, I had completed a manuscript, which I considered a more than average work; a social commentary of sorts, which parsed political issues and global developmental trends. After several editions, I boldly submitted the more than 300 pages to a publisher, with great expectation.The response savaged me. It spoke of my sophomoric approach, and that I wrote things which were already written and blah, blah. I don t wish to revive the pain of the rejection. But he also wrote one thing that has bought me to this place. He said, Don t give up. Of course, I ignored him and gave up, for two years. But over time my wounds healed and I began to write once more, and soon had several poems and another manuscript ready for submission. The planets aligned when I regained contact with an old friend; to whom I sent a sample of my writing to fill an afternoon vacant of activity. With clenched teeth and squinting eyes, I awaited splinters of broken glass which would come with the reply.There were none. Instead, I got a gentle reply that changed the direction of my life. My friend was smitten by the essay. Until then I had written on principle, without serious hope of becoming a published writer.In fact, for years I pursued a career in business, and had risen to the top of the pile. But my friend s endorsement relit my interest, and I began writing in earnest as before.So you wish to be a writer? Great idea, though writing is amongst the most difficult of career choices, and will not bring instant success. It will take many years of practice and dogged determination.Read profuselyYou should not copy another s style, despite the necessity to read profusely. A retentive memory, an agile mind, and great imagination are indispensible. Become attentive to life; observe all things; people, the way they move and act.Their idiosyncrasies and dislikes will become beneficial when you create characters later. Watch birds build their nests, or a bitch cleaning her puppies, while another removes a tick from its groin. You must learn the craft from those who know it well. Understand how to use irony to enrich a scene. And be bold in your approach. Believe in yourself.Become an artistWriting is an art, so in essence you must become an artist to do it well; using words in unique ways until you develop a style of your own. You must know a million words and when to use them. Well, not quite a million, but as close to a million as possible. And last but not least, avoid using clich . For example, that least but not least phrase, which I used to make a point; shows how you may break the rule, for effect. And pen ultimately, respect the intelligence of readers. Presume they are smarter than you. And above all of this, choose your audience as you will not be able to write a book for everyone. God has already written that book; it is called The Bible; though Moby Dick is a close second, arguably.