Even though research continues to indicate that nutrient-rich, delicious mushrooms are potential allies in the fight against obesity, heart attack and prostate cancer three of the major health risks for men they don t always get the respect they deserve. But take note; their meaty flavour and hearty texture is exactly what men want and what they need to stay lean and healthy. And, mushrooms are virtually fatfree and low in calories and carbs. Mushrooms are also a good source of essential minerals such as heart-healthy potassium helpful to offset the effects of sodium and to lower blood pressure and selenium, that may protect against prostate cancer. These nutritional heavyweights are also rich in antioxidants and vitamins B and D. Here are some mushrooms for men facts: One cup of mushrooms contains a mere 18 calories and zero grams of fat. This makes it a must include ingredient in any weight-loss programme. To lose weight but still gain muscle, all you have to do is to replace the meat on your plate with mushrooms: not only are they low in calories; they re high in fibre and pack a powerful protein punch. Selenium is a recognised ally against prostate cancer and a serving of portabellini mushrooms (80g to 100g) provides almost your daily selenium intake. Research studies show that diets rich in potassium and low in sodium can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, the number one killer of men. A cup of sliced, grilled portabella mushrooms contains as much potassium as a medium-sized banana. And, while a low-salt diet allows 400-1 000mg of sodium per day, fresh mushrooms contain only 14mg of sodium per 100g. Impressively healthy. Finally, adding mushrooms to your diet could improve your sex life. They inhibit estrogen production and contain enzymes that promote testosterone conversion, making sure that testosterone levels remain high. Mushrooms are a cornerstone of the blend trend. Add spinach to make a dish healthier or soya to make it cheaper. If you want a dish both delicious and high in nutrition, you need to replace between 30% and 50% of any meat dish with mushrooms. What s in it for you? You will reduce your meat intake and increase both flavour and nutritional content of your meal while reducing your calorie, fat, cholesterol and sodium intake. Why do I need to reduce my meat intake? In addition to raising the risk for colorectal cancer and other health problems, red meat can actually shorten your life. How do I do it? Add chopped mushrooms into any of your favourite minced meat options while reducing the meat content of your dish and you are one of the select and happy ones who have joined the #blendtrend. Did you know? When you blend, you don t only reduce calories, cholesterol and sodium, you also increase your intake of potassium, vitamins B, D &amp; C as well as iron, zinc selenium and pantothenic acid (vit B5). Mushrooms are a good source of dietary fibre, protein and folate. By adding umami-rich mushrooms to just about any savoury dish, everything else in the dish will taste even better. It s a menu every man can live with. Visit mushroominfo.co.za ALSO READ: #SAMA23 fashion in memes For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.