Two men were sentenced to life imprisonment by the Durban High Court for killing a police officer, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, known as the Hawks, said on Monday. On Friday, the Durban High Court sentenced Thuthukani Mbonambi, 43, and Senzo Ndlovu, 32, to life in jail for the 2015 killing of 40-year-old Warrant Officer Niren Ramsaroop, Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said. Mhlongo said their accomplices, 28-year-old bank teller Nhlakanipho Zulu, and 25-year-old Sibusiso Mthabela were both sentenced to 20 years imprisonment respectively. Acting National Head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata, congratulated the Richards Bay Serious Organised Crime Unit for the outstanding detective work . I want to commend the contribution of everyone in the justice system for collaborating and ensuring that the perpetrators of this heinous crime are in jail, Matakata said. These sentences augurs very well for the Hawks and all our partners that through dedication and relentless pursuit of the case, resulted in these life sentences. I congratulate the entire team and urge them to continue to do more. Matakata reiterated her commitment to fighting serious crime saying the Hawks will continue to foster partnerships and a multi-disciplinary approach that will benefit all South Africans. On November 14, 2015, Ramsaroop was patrolling at the Empangeni town centre with colleagues, when three women approached them saying that they were robbed of a bag containing R110 000 in cash after they withdrew stokvel money from a local bank. The women said they were accosted by the men shortly after leaving the bank. Mhlongo said that Ramsaroop spotted Mbonambi and managed to grab hold of him, when Mbonambi pulled out a gun and shot Ramsaroop in the chest. He was able to return fire and shot him in the leg and Mbonambi was arrested on the spot. A 7.65mm pistol, with its serial number erased, was recovered at the scene. The other accused managed to escape with a bag containing cash. Following the unfortunate incident, the case was referred to the Richards Bay Hawks Serious Organised Crime Unit. Investigations further led to the arrest of Ndlovu who was with Mbonambi during the shooting whilst Mthabela and Zulu were linked after they were found to have been accomplices to the crime, Mhlongo said. Besides the firearm that was used to kill Warrant Officer Ramsaroop, another unlicensed handgun and almost R30,000 of the stolen money were seized. African News Agency (ANA) Defence minister warns SANDF members not to &#8216;touch&#8217; DRC women For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.