The Lions had to play 48 minutes with 14 men but it seemed as if they were playing with 16 as they hammered the Kings 54-10 at Ellis Park on Sunday afternoon. It was an astonishing performance from South Africa&#8217;s frontrunner in the Super Rugby competition, who not only ran their opponents off their feet but defended superbly. Who was the star in this match? Flanker and Blitzboks star Kwagga Smith was an all-round menace. But the best thing about the Lions&#8217; red card was that it meant replacement hooker Malcolm Marx had to come on. The Springbok hooker was outstanding. He ran 64m, made 8 tackles, stole 4 balls and capped it off with a try. Unbelievable. Key themes and events Poor discipline became a dominant theme in this encounter as early as the 8th minute when Kings lock Irne Herbst was yellow carded for repeated infringements at the maul. It proved fairly costly as the Lions scored two tries in that period. Wing Courtnall Skosan&#8217;s score was particularly delightful after captain Warren Whiteley fielded a Elton Jantjies cross kick. In a minute of madness, both sides saw players leave the field with cards. Kings fetcher Chris Cloete was shown yellow for tackling Whiteley without the ball and then charging into a ruck. However, first prize of a brain fade was Lions hooker Robbie Coetzee, who was sent off with a red card after kneeing Cloete in the head. It was an inexcusable act of needless retaliation. Yet the Lions showed their composure and experience by hardly panicking when Coetzee went off. The half-time break seemed to calm then down and at times it looked as if they were playing with 16 men so dominant were they. Three tries in the third quarter put this game to bed. The Kings competed well in the first half but in general they&#8217;ll be really disappointed with this performance. They collapsed after the Lions red card, knocking on regularly, protecting possession astonishingly poorly at the breakdown and struggling in the set-pieces. Given that they played 48 minutes with 14 men, the Lions&#8217; defence remained magnificent. They were required to make 135 tackles and only missed 18. The Kings only made completed 78 and missed a massive 30. Point scorers: Lions &#8211; Tries: Kwagga Smith (2), Andries Ferreira, Courtnall Skosan, Malcolm Marx, Jacques van Rooyen, Faf de Klerk, Andries Coetzee. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (5), Coetzee (2). Kings &#8211; Try: Luzuko Vulindlu. Conversion: Pieter-Steyn de Wet. Penalty: De Wet. Yet For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.