Neither did early marriage nor marital problems that followed stop her from pursuing her dream. She wanted to do just anything meaningful to earn her own income rather than be the housewife her husband and his family wanted her to be.Today the single mother of two, Tahiya Musa, is living her dream. She is the proud owner of a natural beauty products shop, Shantelle Natural Cosmetics in Magomeni Morocco in the city.Tahiya sells a range of herbs, natural oils, soaps, shampoos, lotions, coffee scrub, all which are made using natural ingredients.Her products not only promise to give you a soft and spotless skin but they also promise to soothe your scalp and promote hair growth. On one of the walls at Shantelle Cosmetics is a poster showing before and after photos of people whose once damaged hair was repaired by the products in the shop. No wonder they are the most selling.The 36-year-old ambitious entrepreneur was this year one among the women recognised by a local radio station s Malkia wa Nguvu award programme which celebrates women who go out of their way to change both their lives and that of the people around them.Financial independenceHaving been in the business for over three years, Tahiya says she has no regrets. Her business is thriving and she has customers not only in Dar es Salaam but also in Tanga, Morogoro, Mwanza and Arusha. I thank God business is good. I put food on the table because of this business. I just can t complain, says Tahiya, proud that she is now financially independent and able to support her family.Tahiya who parted ways with her husband of nine years has every reason to thank God for who she is today after what she went through in marriage. Looking back, she is grateful that the difficult times in her marriage made her the strong woman that she is today. No wonder she was nominated for the Malkia wa Nguvu Award. It was a rough road all the way but the challenges served as a motivation for her.At the age of 15 way back in 1996, Tahiya was married off to a man she hardly knew. She became under the control of not only her husband but also her in-laws who set tough rules in almost every aspect of her life. They didn t allow me to go out of the house or engage in any economic activity. They wanted me to be a housewife, she recalls.Because Tahiya did not agree with her husband and her in-laws perspective of marriage, she found herself in the middle of misunderstandings.Before she got married, Tahiya had been working at a hospital in Dodoma. However, soon after the wedding, her husband, who was working in a family business made her quit the job on condition that he would pay her the equivalence of her monthly salary every month.He kept his promise for a year but stopped paying Tahiya after she got pregnant.Because she desperately wanted to earn an income, in 2009, Tahiya secretly started making and selling bitings, such as samosas, mandazi, kachori and the like. Her husband was not at home most of the daytime therefore she conspired with the houseboy who used to supply the bitings in offices in town and collect money every Friday.Back to square oneOn one Friday, the houseboy went to collect the money as usual and vanished into thin air. It was a big blow to Tahiya. He ran away with Sh560,000. All my efforts to search for him failed. I later gave up because if I continued to push for the search, the secret would come out. The houseboy took advantage of my situation since he was the only one who knew that I was making and selling bitings. Tahiya had to keep quiet and pretend that everything was normal. She had to stop making bitings.After a while she asked her husband for support to start a business. This time, lady luck was on her side for after a long and hard push, her husband gave her Sh200,000 with which she started selling clothes that she imported from Mombasa.Her customers were within the family and most of them bought the clothes on loan and didn t pay. This made her lose her capital in the long run. She convinced her husband to consider having their own business as life was getting hard. Unfortunately, he didn t buy the idea. With time the family business my husband was engaged in collapsed. Coupled with misunderstandings in the family, things went from bad to worse, she says.At some point Tahiya and her husband travelled to India to take care of a sick relative. It was during the six-month stay in India that Tahiya learned how Indians made oil using seeds and plants. The exposure I got from the trip was an eye-opener. I came back home full of ideas on how to make my own oil and herbs business. When they returned home from India in 2005, the challenges and misunderstandings she had been experiencing in her marriage got even worse. My in-laws were not happy with my aggressiveness in business. I advised my husband that we could leave the family house and go establish our own home elsewhere to avoid family quarrels. However, my suggestion fell on deaf ears. We ended up going our separate ways, she recalls. I didn t know what to do after divorce as I didn t have a job to support me, Tahiya recalls. However, life had to continue and Tahiya had to struggle to survive. I told myself that I had to do something to earn a living. It wasn t easy but I finally made it. If you learn to accept problems as a normal, regular, and an unavoidable part of life, you become stronger, Tahiya says.Tahiya who now lives with her two children she raises with the support of their father, decided to put into practice what she had learned in India. She went to Kariakoo and bought seeds for making hair oil.The results, Tahiya says were not so impressive at the beginning. She decided to use the oil herself anyway and after three weeks, she didn t believe her eyes. The results were amazing.Her hair was in a better condition. She gave some of the oil to some of her friends to try and their response was very encouraging.Big dreamsMonths later, she attended entrepreneurship seminars offered by Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) where she learned more about small businesses and product packaging. She took her products to Tanzania Bureau of Standards for certification, which she received.Tahiya is in the process of developing some herbal medicine to treat cervical cancer. She has taken the sample to the government chemist laboratory agency for testing and is eagerly awaiting the results.She also plans to open an entrepreneurship school to teach other women how to get rid of poverty. She also plans to stage an exhibition for small scale entrepreneurs at Tangamano grounds in Tanga during Eid next month. The exhibition will go by the name of Eid Baazar . This will be an open and free exhibition.She is also in the process of making deodorants which she will distribute to teenagers and students for free before she puts them on the market.Tahiya believes challenges are part of life and that they only make us stronger.If you manage to overcome a challenge, it will raise you up and make it easier for you to overcome your next trial. But if you fail and surrender to the challenge, it will downsize you, put you off and make you lose confidence, she notes.Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz