Tiger Flame takes a drop in class at Turffontein on Tuesday and looks the runner to beat in Race 6, a MR 81 Handicap for fillies and mares over 1800m on the Inside track. The five-year-old mare has been racing in top company of late. Two runs back she took on some top stayers in the Sun Chariot Handicap over 2450m at Turffontein but clearly found the distance too far and after being in touch with the leaders going through the 400m mark, ended up running fourth, 10.25 lengths behind Zafira. Her last start was on Classic Day at Turffontein where she contested the Listed Jacaranda Handicap over 1800m and she acquitted herself fairly well, finishing 4.80 lengths behind Polyphonic, who has since gone on to win another feature. The average merit rating of runners in both of those races was 84 while in this race the average is 74. Of course, with the drop in class comes a commensurate increase in weight and Ormond Ferraris charge carries 7kg more than last time. She also has to deal with No 11 draw but the good news is that Ferraris has engaged Anthony Delpech to ride the daughter of Where s That Tiger, a sire who has moved from Australia and is now standing at The Alchemy in Robertson. Parisienne Chic also contested the Jacaranda Handicap and finished another 1.30 lengths behind Tiger Flame so although 0.5kg better off, that is not enough to turn the form around, although she does have the benefit of No 1 draw. A bigger threat could come for Snowdonia who is in excellent form and all four of her wins have been at this track. Wayne Agrella has relocated to Joburg and trainer Paul Peter has used the former Port Elizabeth-based jockey with some success already. Unfortunately Snowdonia is another with draw issues as she has to jump from barrier No 10. An interesting runner is in Race 4 where trainer Joe Soma sends out Knysna Rose in a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1450m. Anton Marcus has been carded to ride the Australian-bred filly and it is his only ride on the day. He rode her last time when she finished a 1.30-length second behind Cascapedia, who looks to be quite a decent filly, over 1400m on the Standside track. The last time Knysna Rose ran over the course and distance she went down a neck to Three Kingdoms. She is well drawn at No 4. ALSO READ: Sam Mosia retains work riders title For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.