The Chamber of Mines elected Mxolisi Mgojo, the chief executive of Exxaro Resources, as its president on Wednesday during its 127th Annual General Meeting, replacing Mike Teke. Mgojo has been Exxaro chief executive since April 2016. He has served as an executive head of coal at Exxaro and as its executive head of operations, responsible for the base metals and industrial minerals commodity business of Exxaro. Steve Phiri, the chief executive of Royal Bafokeng Platinum, was elected vice president. Both Andile Sangqu, the executive head of Anglo American South Africa, and Sibanye Gold chief executive Neal Froneman were re-elected as vice presidents. Chamber of Mines chief executive, Roger Baxter, said the office bearers play a crucial role in leading and representing the industry, and in providing strategic leadership guidance to the Chamber team. We welcome the new office bearers and look forward to their support and wise counsel in the year ahead. For the 2017/18 period the Chamber members have agreed to expand the office bearer team by an extra member to support the Chamber in dealing with the key challenges in the environment that need addressing, hence an additional Vice-President role has been added, Baxter said. I am very confident that under the current leadership the Chamber will make further progress in its task of properly representing and assisting its members, and that it will continue to play an ever-increasing role in the development of South Africa s mining industry for the benefit of all. The Chamber of Mines is the preeminent mining employers organisation and represents companies that produce around 90 percent of South Africa s mineral production, by value. Mining has played a vital role in the SA economy for more than 100 years. In 2016, the mining industry contributed R304 billion towards the country s gross domestic product (GDP). This represented 7.3 percent of overall GDP. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.