Times are tough in the country at the moment and not just negative talk around the braai tough. It is closing down of motoring publications, dealers and manufacturers tough. . So it makes sense that Fiat, who are not doing well in SA at the moment are turning to new models to try and encourage buyers back. Nobody knows this better than the CEO of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) SA, Robin van Rensburg, and after a straight chat over lunch at the launch of the new Fiat Tipo Hatch and Sedan last week, he admitted being well aware of the mistakes of the past and the hard work that lies ahead. The new models are the Tipo, a new Panda and some limited edition 500 models coming this year. The Tipo is a car that is said to offer plenty for the money. And you get the latest-generation audio systems, including a handsfree Bluetooth interface, audio streaming, text reader and voice recognition, AUX and USB ports with iPod integration, controls on the steering wheel, an optional rear parking camera and the new TomTom 3D built-in navigation system on all models except the Easy. . Besides the generous array of safety devices, comfort and practicality are assured by the fitment of manual air conditioning (on the POP versions) and automatic air conditioning (on the remainder of the range), electric front windows, electrically adjustable door mirrors with defrosting function and the 60/40 split rear seat (excludes sedan POP version). POP models feature 16-inch steel wheels fitted with stylish covers. Easy models incorporate 16- inch alloy rims, LED daytime running lights, chrome door handles and a leather steering wheel. A reverse camera is standard on the hatchback Lounge model, and an optional extra on all models except the POP. The Lounge trim, exclusive to the hatchback, features 17-inchalloy wheel rims, chrome details and a leather steering wheel and gear shift knob. Comfort and safety features include rear parking sensors, front fog lights, automatic climate control, cruise control, front armrest and driver s seat with optional lumbar adjustment. The Lounge also features the UConnect infotainment system with Navigation as standard. In terms of style, the POP and Easy trim levels are practical without scrimping on flair. . The hatchback seats are upholstered in black fabric, while the sedan is available in black and silver on the POP or black/grey structured weave design on the Easy. In the hatchback Lounge trim level, the seats feature quality materials and are available in grey fabric or black techno leather. Being targeted as a family type car, the Fiat Tipo features modern active and passive safety devices such as standard driver- and front passenger airbags (with side and curtain airbags as an option) along with electronic stability control (ESC). And the ESC system includes a number of devices including Panic Brake Assist (PBA), which intervenes in case of emergency braking by increasing the braking force; ABS; traction control (TCS), which detects wheel slip under acceleration and intervenes by reducing engine torque; and Hill Start Assist, which maintains brake pressure for approximately two seconds after the driver releases the pedal. Also available is Cruise Control on all Easy and Lounge models and can be selected as an option on the Hatchback POP model. . Safety is assured by rear parking sensors and a rear view camera, which returns crystal-clear reversing images on the radio screen, not forgetting the rain and dusk sensors and electrochromatic rearview mirror. And should you find the need or want to customise your Fiat Tipo further, Mopar offers about 70 accessories for the range: from roof transport systems for windsurfers, kayaks, and bicycles to chrome-plated door mirror covers with the Fiat logo. Interior space is also more than adequate, with a boot capacity of 440 litres in the hatch and 520 litres in the sedan. The Fiat Tipo models offer an updated range of engines in three different capacities with two fuel options. They are the 70kW/ 200Nm turbodiesel 1.3 MultiJet II, the 70kW / 127Nm Fire 1.4 16v and the 81kW / 152Nm 1.6 E-torQ petrol engines. There are also three types of transmissions: five-speed manual for the 1.3-litre diesel engine, six-speed manual for the 1.4-litre petrol engine and a six-speed automatic transmission for the 1.6 E-torQ petrol engine. I mostly drove the 1.4-litre on the launch. It will get you from A to B, but it certainly won t do it in any kind of hurry. . I never got a drive in the 1.6-litre automatic; I can only assume it will be a little better in performance terms, but not much more. The little 1.3 turbodiesel was the pick of the two cars I drove, although also not quick in any way. The five-speed box ensured you seldom had to change cogs to stay on the boil like you have to do with the 1.4. Obviously Fiat make no bones about it: speed is not what they are selling here, but I think they have a decent product at a good price in the Tipo, and they are worth going to have a look at. Model Pricing Sedan 1.4 Pop R229 900 Sedan 1.4 Easy R249 900 Sedan 1.3 Easy R274 900 Sedan 1.6l Easy AT R274 900 Hatch 1.4 POP R249 900 Hatch 1.4 Easy R269 900 Hatch 1.4 Lounge R289 900 Hatch 1.6 Easy AT R294 900 All Fiat Tipo models come with a standard three-year/100 000km warranty and service plan.