With the KZN Champion Season well under way, an influx of talented horses from around the country is raiding Durban which makes for very entertaining and competitive racing. Such will be the case at Greyville today on the Polytrack. Going through the card, it suggests we could witness two of Durban s best jockeys in Anton Marcus and Anthony Delpech going head-to-head. Marcus could kick off proceedings by winning the first race aboard Vargraves. This Charles Laird-trained two-year-old filly was heavily backed on debut when beaten 4.50 lengths into third by Vanity Fair. She got going late so should relish the extra 200m. This daughter of Var could prove hard to beat from a No 2 draw and at level weights with the field at 60kg should none of the first timers be special. Delpech will be aboard newcomer Al s Bells who was sold for R450 000, watch the betting she could have ability. Marcus rides Mermaid Siren in the third, a FM Maiden Plate over 1400m. She s proven rather expensive to follow over her last three outings having failed to win. Good thing is this could be a reflection of her true ability so should have a say. Although hat-trick hopeful Noodle is stepping up in class, she could be the one to follow in Race 4, a FM 73 Handicap over 1400m. She s on a roll and will have quite a lot in her favour. She s drawn No 1 and will shoulder 57.5kg which should only increase her chances. Anthony Delpech looks to have the upper hand in the MR 66 Handicap over 1400m in Race 6. He rides Dean Kannemeyer-trained Figaro whose Polytrack form is quite impressive having run three times for a win, a second and a third. If his last victory is anything to go by he could prove one of the best bets on the card. He ll shoulder 59kg 1.5kg less than Marcus mount Fellow Traveller which isn t much of an advantage. Fellow Traveller proved to be stubborn last time out and had breathing problems when beaten into second by 1600m specialist Roy s Rolls Royce. The drop in trip should be ideal and he looks to be on the up. With Marcus aboard, he could cause an upset. Hat Puntano scratched from July For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.