Sheeps enjoy grass after communuty members set fire on farmers houses in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu whom they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A school child in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A school child in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda SAPS members distinguish fire at the house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 10 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle whom they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A farmers house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda N.M.M.D.M Fire and rescue team distinguish fire at the house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 10 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle whom they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Residents protest in Coligny at North West, 3 May 2017, were two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the death of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower at their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A doctor's house that was vandalised and looted by community in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A doctor's house that was vandalised and looted by community in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda Residents help each other to distinguish fire at the house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 10 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle whom they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A farmers house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda A farmers house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 8 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle Mosweu who they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda N.M.M.D.M Fire and rescue team distinguish fire at the house that was set alight by community in Coligny, North West, 10 May 2017, after two farmers, Pieter Doorewaard and Philip Schutte were granted bail for the murder of Wyle whom they accused of stealing Sunflower in their feild. Picture: Nigel Sibanda