A poster of Karabo Mokoena sits above her casket at her funeral service in the Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Pastor Neyi Zimu encourages the crowd during the funeral service of Karabo Mokoena in Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A mourner cries during the funeral service of Karabo Mokoena in Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Mourners cry during the funeral service of Karabo Mokoena in Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Men against violence toward women stand alongside Karabo's coffin during her funeral service in the Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A mourner cries during the funeral service of Karabo Mokoena in Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Men against violence toward women stand alongside Karabo's coffin during her funeral service in the Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Bontle Mokoena, Karabo Mokoena's sister, cries during the funeral service of Karabo Mokoena in Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A painter works on a likeness of Karabo Mokoena during her funeral service in the Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia The casket of Karabo Mokoena is carried out of Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto during her funeral service on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Pallbearers carry the casket of Karabo Mokoena out of the Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto during her funeral service on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia A family member of Karabo Mokoena cries during the funeral service of Karabo in Diepkloof Community Hall in Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia One of the officiating clergy waits outside with the casket of Karabo Mokoena at her funeral service at the Diepkloof Community Hall, Soweto on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia The casket of Karabo Mokoena is lowered into the ground at Westpark Cemetary in Randburg during her funeral on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Family members of Karabo Mokoena lay handfuls of dirt and flowers into their daughters grave at Westpark Cemetary in Randburg during her funeral on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Karabo Mokoena's parents, Lolo and Tshepo Mokoena, lay handfuls of dirt and flowers into their daughters grave at Westpark Cemetary in Randburg during her funeral on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia Doves are released over the casket of Karabo Mokoena after it was lowered into the ground at Westpark Cemetary in Randburg during her funeral on 19 May 2017. Mokoena was killed and burnt, allegedly by her boyfriend, in a murder that shocked the country and catalysed debate around gender based violence. Picture: Yeshiel Panchia