A 41-year-old man was sentenced to life imprisonment for raping and kidnapping minors in the Germiston Magistrate s Court, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said on Tuesday. NPA spokesperson Phindi Mjonodwane said the man was charged with seven counts four counts of rape and three counts of kidnapping and was convicted of three counts of rape and two counts of kidnapping on January 11. There were three victims aged between five and nine years. He lured two of the victims from school and one was found on the street playing. He took the two minor girls and raped them in an open veld, she said. The other victim that he found on the street he took to his house and raped her there. He kept this victim at his house overnight. Mjonodwane said the man was arrested when the youngest of the three girls pointed out his house to the police. This victim also pointed him out on the identity parade. He was linked to the other two victims through a witness. Mjonodwane said the crimes were viewed by the State as crimes of an extremely serious nature in that the accused was brave enough to perpetrate these crimes on minors and in broad daylight, which was disrespecting the rule of law. Prosecutor, Sibongile Nxumalo, argued that a heinous crime was committed on innocent children who are dependent on adults for protection. Your worship, it is in the interest of justice and that of society to impose harsher sentences to curb violent crimes against women and children. We cannot ignore the public outcry which is justified. Our courts are flooded with rapes and murders of children, seeking drastic and decisive measures in that regard, Nxumalo said. The State asked the court not to deviate from imposing the prescribed sentence of life imprisonment as it was convinced that there were no substantial and compelling circumstances present, justifying such departure. The NPA is satisfied that the court arrived at a just sentence that is proportionate to the seriousness of the crime, Mjonodwane said. The Director of Public Prosecutions in Gauteng Local Division, Advocate Andrew Chauke welcomed the sentence. This sentence comes at a time when the South African nation is in shock due to the nature of attacks perpetrated against women and children and therefore serves to reassure communities out there that the NPA, together with other law enforcement agencies, remains committed in delivering a victim-centric service, Chauke said. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.