Generally regarded as the poor cousin to the cricket world&#8217;s more prestigious titles, the Champions Trophy gets underway on June 1 when hosts England take on Bangladesh at The Oval. Slotting only in at No 3 on the list after the World Cup and World Twenty20 of the most sought-after limited-overs trophies, the 50-over tournament in nonetheless considered a major trophy. Also read: Morne Morkel could be victim of Proteas all-rounder plan And in fact the only major cricket trophy the Proteas (1998) and New Zealand (2000) have ever managed to win. After a many changes, the tournament was on the brink of extinction since the last inception in England four years ago before the ICC decided not to scrap the event. But regardless of the importance that goes along with lifting the trophy on Sunday June 18 at The Oval, Proteas captain AB de Villiers will undoubtedly target success as a major milestone in his desire to break South Africa&#8217;s World Cup hoodoo in 2019. Before the Proteas get ahead of themselves though, they need to negotiate their way out of Group B first and will probably need two wins from their three group matches against Sri Lanka on Saturday, Pakistan (June 7) and India (June 11). A walk down memory lane Hansie Cronje tasted immediate success as skipper in the first edition of the tournament. Photo: Stu Forster /Allsport. 1998: Winners With the inaugural version dubbed the ICC KnockOut Trophy, the Hansie Conje-led Proteas coasted past England in their quarterfinal before an unbeaten century by Jacques Kallis set up a resounding victory against Sri Lanka in the last-four. Kallis took 5/30 in the final against the West Indies in Dhaka and Cronje kept his cool with an unbeaten 61 to get South Africa safely over the line. 2000: (Semifinals) After again dismantling England in their opening assignment, the Proteas&#8217; winning run at the tournament came to a grinding halt in the semifinals against India. Saurav Ganguly&#8217;s unbeaten 141 set up a resounding 95-run win in Nairobi. Herschelle Gibbs suffered cramps at the worst time. Photo: Clive Mason/Getty Images. 2002 (Semifinals) The tournament&#8217;s name was changed to the current Champions Trophy for the event and included associate teams in a format that included pools and a group stage. After wins against the Windies and Kenya, the Proteas&#8217; floundered in sensational fashion in the semifinals against India in Colombo. A Herschelle Gibbs century seemed enough to get the Proteas over the line, but an almighty choke cost them a meeting in the final. 2004: (Group stage) The Proteas started their campaign with an easy win against Bangladesh, but a loss to eventual champions the West Indies at The Oval saw them fall short of the semifinals for the first time in the event&#8217;s history, leading to the sacking of coach Eric Simons. 2006 (Semifinals) After suffering a humiliating loss batting second on a crumbling wicket at the Brabourne Stadium in Kolkata against New Zealand, the Proteas pulled up their socks to crush Sri Lanka and Pakistan in their next two matches, with Makhaya Ntini recording figues of 5/21 against the Pakistanis in Mohali. However, AB de Villiers&#8217; run out at a critical moment in the semifinals against the Windies in Jaipur cost South Africa dearly. They only managed 258/8, a score that wasn&#8217;t Chris Gayle-proof. The giant left-hander made the chase a mere cakewalk with an unbeaten 133. Drama as Graeme Smith isn&#8217;t allowed a runner by England&#8217;s Andrew Strauss. Photo: Tom Shaw/Getty Images. 2009: (Group stage) The Proteas started their campaign as hosts with a shock loss to Sri Lanka in Centurion after a swashbuckling century by Tillakaratne Dilshan put the Islanders in control. They got their campaign back on track by grinding out a five-wicket against the Kiwis two days later, but crashed out losing to England next up. The match will be remember for England captain Andres Strauss denying Proteas counterpart Graeme Smith a runner after the Proteas skipper reached a century in their chase of 324 in Centurion. 2013: (Semifinals) After a loss to India and win against Pakistan in their opening two matches, the Proteas&#8217; crucial rain-reduced group match against the West Indies in Cardiff dramatically ended in a tie after Colin Ingram helped South Africa put up 230/6 in 31 overs. Managing to scrape through to the semifinals on net run rate, the Proteas came unstuck badly against hosts England. After being reducing to 80/8, the Proteas could only post 175, which proved no match for England. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.