Cancer is indeed on the rise in Tanzania and elsewhere across the world that s a known fact.However, against the backdrop of this rise, is a sickening upsurge of fake cancer news ranging from claimed cancer cures, to frightening stories linking certain foods and human deeds to cancer.Society needs to get concerned about the rise of fake cancer news, especially when it hurts the people imagine a situation where someone can t trust what they read about a topic, as serious as cancer.And nowadays, when there is a flood of information on social media platforms about cancer, people are likely to stumble on a cancer story and simply share even when they don t believe it s true.Yet, there are thousands of journals online, and they all appear so fancy that one doesn t know whether they should trust them or not. This makes it more difficult to distinguish between a fake story and a true one. So, my honest advice is; when you stumble on some striking news about cancer, endeavour to ask yourself the following basic questions: Is the news article you are reading on internet based on research? And, is the research coming from a journal that is authentic? This should alert you! Is the author of the story making an exaggerated conclusion from just a single study? Then, if so, there are reasons not to trust it. Does the article make unverified increases in numbers when describing the study conclusions? These could be elements of an exaggerated cancer story. Watch out! Is the article coming from health activists or food vending website? You have every reason to worry about this news. Does the article sound like a press release? Then, dig out who is behind it. There are companies that sell certain food products, claiming they cure cancer and they do this through press releases posted on social media platforms. Does the article on a particular study about the cancer news story explain how it was carried out? Does it explain the technicalities about the study? If not, there is every reason to worry about it.Email :six.buguzi@gmail.com