We re thrilled to bring you the news that internationally acclaimed designer David Tlale will be bringing you The Intern, a brand-new reality show where 12 hopeful fashion designers battle it out for the title of Assistant Designer for his fashion-house and you could be one of them. The show will give 12 lucky contestants the opportunity to take part in a 13-week internship programme consisting of various challenges and eliminations. The first phase will be a national road show, where David and his team will be visiting the following places: 22 &amp; 23 May 2017 Castle of Good Hope Cape Town 25 &amp; 26 May 2017 iGoda Incubator Durban 29 &amp; 30 May 2017 TBC Polokwane 01 &amp; 2 June 2017 Johannesburg City Hall Johannesburg On the day, David will be giving workshops to the hopeful contestants at each of the locations and will choose the lucky 12 contestants that will be joining him in Johannesburg. The contestants that are chosen will then not only compete on the 13-week reality TV show to be The Intern, but will also, on elimination from the TV show, get an opportunity to join David Tlale s in-house internship programme for 6 months. Closing dates for each city is the second day of the competition at noon. Participating in the program requires contestants to either be self-taught with a minimum of three years experience in the fashion industry, or be student currently working on achieving their degree or diploma in Fashion Design final year students only. Above all, this internship is open to everyone residing in South Africa. Every selected contestant will receive exposure on national television during the show, and will participate in David Tlale s internship after elimination for a period of 6 months. The ultimate winner of the show will become David s assistant designer and win a studio to the value of R250 000. To enter, aspiring designers must compile a complete fashion design portfolio of their own work including their fashion r sum . The portfolio will then be judged by David Tlale and 12 contestants will be selected. Three complete garments must be ready to show at the pre-judging, models and styling will be provided. All the entry information can be found on the website for electronic submission. You can also submit at your nearest SABC office. Brought to you by People Magazine For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.