Vincent Koch has admitted that he gave up his Springbok ambitions to help his English club Saracens try and achieve as much success as they had last season. When the 27-year-old tighthead plays for Saracens against Clermont Auvergne in the Champions Cup Final at Murrayfield on Saturday, he can&#8217;t hope anymore of being picked by South Africa. Also read: Bryan Habana: Politics, not just cash, makes players leave Saru recently passed a new ruling that will only overseas players with more than 30 caps can be picked for the national side. But Koch, who made his name at the Pumas and Stormers, has made peace with that. In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Koch, who won the last of his nine Bok caps against Italy in November said: I have made the decision to play here. I am not going to be able to play for the Springboks again while I am overseas, which is sad. As a child you dream of playing for your country and it was a real honour every time I was selected. But I have a new career now. It was my decision and I believe I made the right one. South Africa would like to keep their players at home, but I made the decision to extend my career and become a better player. Koch enjoys his club&#8217;s high ambitions. The club set very high standards and I have to perform to earn the respect of the guys and not let them down. The coaches push you in areas where they believe you can improve,&#8221; he said. In the semifinal, I was really excited and winning was fantastic, so I can only imagine what it is going to be like if we can win the final on Saturday. The level of European Cup rugby is close to Test rugby. Super Rugby is much looser, while the northern hemisphere game is slower but much more physical, with guys running really hard in straight lines. It does ask more of you physically and mentally, especially in the scrums. I started on the loose-head and have been only been on the tight-head side of the scrum for three years and I am still learning from all the other guys at the club. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.