To most of us, our mothers are everything. They are our joy, our inspiration, our happiness, our strength, the shoulders to lean on, they are just our everything!As we celebrate Mother s Day today, Sound Living staff and some of our readers share stories about their mothers and the life lessons they have learnt from them. Read on Tasneem JiviIn one of my interviews, I recall questioning my interviewee about who the hidden personalities of Tanzania were ahead of International Women s Day in March. Expecting an activist, businesswoman or a politician s name, her answer left me dazzled. She said, mothers are the forgotten heroes of our times, hidden behind the kitchen doors .Upon mulling over her thought throughout the day, I came to realise, we are who we are because of them. Think about it. Whether it was falling sick for the first time or getting bullied in class, they are the figures whose shadows have never left us. Whether it is a happy moment or sad, they are the kind of friends you want to be part of.My mother has taught me a lot of things unknowingly just by tackling for instance a regular day, the list may be endless. Being a fitness instructor, I ve always admired her passion of keeping fit. Hopefully one day I will be able to walk in her shoes and help many women out there stay healthy and fit.As my father says; A mother is never old enough to tell her how much we love her. To see a true woman of stature and strength, look at your mother closely, and you ll realise the value of a woman . Definitely a non-negotiable thought to take home.Janet Otieno-ProsperIt is so difficult writing about mama because the miles separate us. She is this kind-hearted woman with a big heart who was a mother to many while we were growing up. Because she opened her gates to the needy, many people ended up living with us either because they were too poor to afford daily meals or were orphaned. She was also hardworking and taught me important life lessons that have helped shape me into the woman I am today. My mother and late father were wonderful parents to my siblings and I. They both provided us with stable foundations and worked hard to transform our lives from their meagre salaries from the government.However, since daddy is with angels in heaven, I will let him rest. So after my dad s death, my mother became our rock of support. So today being Mothers Day, I would like to celebrate my mother Penina Otieno who has been very instrumental in my life. She has lived to be the best mother in the whole world by not trying to be anyone other than herself by setting and pursuing her life goals. She has taught me the value of giving and reaching out to those in need and giving out as much as I can.She would always say, My child, be kind and share the little you have because God will multiply your blessings. Another important lesson was to be present during dinner and share a meal as a family. This was her way of teaching us to appreciate and value family time. Another lesson worth noting was to learn how to say no at times and she never ceased to stress the value of education and would encourage us to aim for the stars. At times when I would get very content, she would always tell me to work extra hard and learn about the importance of adding value in everything I do. She also taught me the importance of discipline and to find a little thing to be grateful for. And more interestingly, she told me this, learn to differentiate between friends and acquaintances. And more importantly she taught us how to pray and going to church was mandatory even during heavy rains. She emphasised the importance of having faith in God.Khalifa SaidM is for mother, a mother of mine, Ms Jokha Ally Nassor. What can I really say about you in order to do you justice? Indeed there are a million things to say about you. Things that can fill ten books if I were to write them down.My mother, S is for smile. I remember your beautiful and lovely smile that attracted my dad to pick you among many while you were not even ready for marriage. We had never met before and I was actually hesitant to go, I still remember these words of yours to us while we were young, about how you and our dad met.Surprisingly, despite being unwilling to marry a person you did not know, you were able to live with him for all those years till death did you part.I remember how you did not want me to choose a wife saying that; you should not be subjective in choosing your life partner, it can cost you. What you actually meant was that, if you my parents lived together happily, with all the experience you had about marriage and the undifferentiated love you had for your son, there was no reason for you to not choose a wife for me.Imagine what death can do to a person. How will you choose a wife for me now that you are gone? How can I now be confident that my mom will choose a good wife for me like she was to my dad? I should get you a wife and teach her how to live with you better my son. I know you better and I know who suites you, you said to me always whenever we discussed about marriage. Mom, you went when I was still young but old enough to really feel the pain and loss. When I still needed your presence, dearest mother.There are so many things to say about you but I cannot say them all lest I commit blasphemy. May your soul rest in peace mother. You come to mind every time I think about finding someone for marriage. I am optimistic however, that you will get me the right wife as you always promised.You are no longer with me physically, but you always live with me spiritually and it has been helpful indeed. I love you mom.Lulu PaulMy mother Getrude Mshanga is one of the most stubborn people I know. I say this because she never gives up no matter what. She managed to raise two girls into women on her own. She showed the type of strength that most women don t even think they have.She taught me that even if you are born female in this male-dominated world you can still make something of yourself.She taught me to never give up no matter what situation I am in, to always strive hard to get to where I want to get. Her love was always different and very protective. At a young age I might not have understood it and maybe did not like it at times. But now that I am a grown woman and a mother myself, I understand it way more and that is why my love, appreciation and respect for her grows stronger with each day that passes.Mom you have been everything to me since you gave birth to me, the pillar of our family, our protector and our all. You taught me to be the woman and mother I am today and I can never thank you enough. All I can say is, I love you mother.Devotha JohnIt is very difficult to describe how much you mean to me my mother, Emelciana Msemwa Mkongwa. You mean a lot to me and your heart is pure and true. Mother, you will always have a special place in my heart.You have made me to be God fearing. When I face challenges and when I think I have wronged you, you look into my eyes while my heart tells me I m your wonderful daughter. Thanks for raising us in the hands of God and Mother Mary. Every night and day I saw you praying, you have blessed me and you keep blessing me.May God bless you always. May you continue to have a loving heart, patience and strength. Mama, you never give up in life and this is the thing that I adore you most for. I remember since childhood, how you and our father always worked hard to ensure we your children had a better life, though dad left us so soon, rest in eternal peace father.Though sometimes I think being a woman is something that is not easy but being a mother is even more difficult because of various challenges that most mothers go through. However, despite all the challenges you are still wonderful and always by our side. Therefore as mothers celebrate this year s Mothers Day, the only thing I can say to you mother is; I love you.May God continue to protect you and give you strength and more years of life, happiness and joy. Happy Mothers Day to you and all mothers in this world.Salome GregoryI grew up seeing my mother, Grace Gasto working very hard to put food on the table. Apart from working as a nurse, she used to engage in different small businesses to augment her income.At our home we used to sell ice cream, vegetables from her garden, chicken and rabbits. She used to make clothes too.It is through this wonderful woman that I learned involving myself not only in employment but also in other different income generating activities to contribute towards my family s development.From her, I also learned to be a good friend. She is this woman who cares so much about others, loves so much and gives so much to the point that she forgets that she too needs to receive back what she gives. I am glad I did not inherit this attribute.Her Kisukuma accent refused to go though we lived in different regions before my father s retirement in 2003. Because of this, my siblings and I call her Msukuma original, and she is just okay with it. She likes jokes.Mama. Happy Mother s Day to you!Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz