No newcomer to the TV world, Katleho Sinivasan, 26, has found himself knee-deep in his dream job as the new and first E! Entertainment Africa host. Born and raised single-handedly by his mother in Joburg, Sinivasan displays a superior, confident character, which could be among the reasons for his successful career as a TV presenter, given his age. He grew up in the public eye as a singer/ character in the teen music group reality show Famous back in 2007, which also saw him attending the South African Music Awards as a nominee later on that year. He then landed a spot as one of the presenters on the SABC1 youth daytime show, YoTV, eventually venturing on to become the co-presenter of SABC1 breakfast show Mzansi Insider, until his recent appointment to the Hollywood A-list show. Sinivasan did all this while a student at the National School of the Performing Arts, majoring in drama and dance. Having come full circle in his career, the ambitious former child star made headlines regarding his family genealogy and lineage, which would explain his unusual surname. I started making up surnames to cover up my own, but now I love it. My grandmother is Sotho and my grandfather Indian, Tamil, and because I was raised by my mother I got to keep her surname, explains Sinivasan. As part of his winnings for The Search E! Entertainment Host contest, Sinavasan recently spent a week of training on the main set at the Universal Studios in Hollywood, Los Angeles. When I heard my name being called out, I literally cried my heart out because it was my dream and everyone who knew me understood how much this meant to me, admits the eager soul as he describes his overwhelmed feelings before the set visit. From the moment I arrived at LAX international, I couldn t believe it. Already there was someone with a huge sign with my name on it waiting for me. It literally felt legit and realistic to me that I had indeed won the contest. He says his jet lag quickly lifted as he walked down the famous Rodeo Drive. ALSO READ: SAMA 23 Lifetime Achievers revealed For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.