Emfuleni Local Municipality Mayor Simon Mofokeng, who is a member of the African National Congress (ANC), has been accused by the Democratic Alliance (DA) of spending nearly two million rand on KFC, Nandos and hotel bills during his previous stint at the helm of Sedibeng District Municipality. Kingsol Chabalala, MPL and DA Gauteng Constituency Head in Emfuleni North, on Thursday alleged that Mofokeng had spent R1,772,549.28 to date on KFC, Nandos at the Shakespeare Inn (Hotel). Mayor Mofokeng racked up a shocking R1.1 million between 2011 and 2015 as ANC Mayor of Sedibeng District Municipality, before he was deployed as Mayor to Emfuleni where he gobbled up a further R629,000 between November 2015 to April 2017, said Chabalala. The MPL said the shocking expenses were revealed in a reply to a DA question in the Legislature by Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC, Paul Mashatile. Chabalala also alleged that Mayor Mofokeng s claims for luxury hotel stays and his appetite for fast food, was in addition to strange fuel claims which were submitted for his private car, as well as claims for car hire despite him having an official mayoral vehicle. The DA has requested Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Paul Mashatile s office to provide a more detailed list, including amounts and invoices on the ANC Mayor s government credit card claims, said Chabalala. Mayor Mofokeng s monthly spending habits fly in the face of Finance MEC Barbara Creecy s statements on practicing austerity and cutting back on luxury hotel stays and fast food. Emfuleni Municipality is in financial distress, yet it seems Mayor Mofokeng of the ANC cannot be bothered to cut back on his expenditure. The Mayor s luxury lifestyle is in direct contrast to the challenges Emfuleni residents face every day. It is shameful that Mayor Mofokeng, a senior ANC leader, continues to dine in the lap of luxury, when so many in the municipality go hungry. It is high time that Mayor Mofokeng is fired by the ANC. Both Mofokeng and Mashatile could not be immediately reached for comment. However, in the written reply on Wednesday, Mashatile confirmed that since November last year, Mofokeng had claimed R629,179. The other amounts of R1,143,370 were claimed before that and an annex listing the expenses is attached. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.