Springbok squad announcements are usually fraught with moans and groans over certain selections. It wasn t any different when national coach Allister Coetzee confirmed his latest group earlier this week. However, it was notable that no-one seemed particularly interested in talking about 23-year-old Lukhanyo Am s inclusion. Also read: The hits and misses of the Springbok squad That would seem to suggest fans either didn t read the 23-year-old Sharks centre s name or they don t necessarily have a problem with his selection. It s rather comforting because it helps us avoid an unnecessary debate over whether Am s actually there on merit. He is. We have to be honest about how certain non-white players have been picked for the national side the last few seasons. Rookies like Sharks flyhalf Garth April and Stormers flank Sikhumbuzo Notshe were picked last year for the Irish series based on a few cameos. Others like Bulls halfback Rudy Paige and injury-ravaged Stormers hooker Scarra Ntubeni have previously been picked despite iffy form and limited game time at their franchises. It serves none of the parties well, especially the players. But Am is different. He s played in every Sharks match to date and has become the glue of a backline that s had to change a lot due to injuries. Yet what makes Am a good fit for exposure to Test rugby is that he s a balanced player. He hasn t necessarily been flashy, just remarkably consistent. Boring consistency is too often underestimated. We re seduced far too much by fancy moments of brilliance. Am s strength this season has been to do everything well. His 90 tackles are the second most by any South African centre in this year s campaign, he s won 9 turnovers, made 12 off-loads, broke the line six times and has run 814 metres. It doesn t matter that he s only scored 2 tries because that s not what makes him a good centre. Am s numbers suggest he s a player with a fine work rate, something far more valuable at Test level. He&#8217;s a guy who makes others around him look good. What also needs to be understood is that he plays in a Sharks system under Robert du Preez that might be more practical and unfashionable but it s actually closer to Test rugby than, for example, the Lions expansive approach. People don t like that fact but Test rugby simply isn t as open as Super Rugby and that&#8217;s why players in the Sharks line-up probably would slot in easier at international level. Given Am s exposure to such a system, he might surprise people how quickly he adapts to Test rugby in future. Heinz Schenk: Online Sports Editor. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.