As the country reels from horrific reports of violence perpetrated against women and children, Minister for Women in the Presidency Susan Shabangu on Wednesday broke her silence on the scourge of gender-based violence. Speaking to Talk Radio 702 s Azania Mosaka, the minister said she was devastated by the increasing number of cases of women who are abused and murdered. It is so devastating when we hear about this increase of women who are abused but also murdered in the process. I think for us, it is the whole society in making sure that we go to some of the root causes of some of these things, she said. Shabangu has faced widespread criticism from gender rights groups and civil society organisations, who have been asking for her leadership on the spate of women being killed in the country. She said men needed to be part of the solution in changing attitudes around how they should treat women, saying gender-based violence should be fought daily. Shabangu said that patriarchy was a major underlying factor towards violence against women and children. For me, it s about mobilising men and not only just women to make sure society as a whole is able to address this problem, and the scourge of violence against women, she said. The issue of involving and engaging men is to precisely understand why they behave in this manner. The response from the minister for women in the Presidency came amid media reports of women and children who have been abused and killed by men close to them. Karabo Mokoena was also being remembered by her loved ones and friends on Wednesday at a memorial service in Diepkloof, Soweto. The 22-year-old s charred body was found last week in Lyndhurst, Johannesburg, after she was allegedly killed by her boyfriend, Sandile Mantsoe. Mokoena will be laid to rest on Friday. Listen to Minister Shabangu s interview below: ALSO READ: Why working with men could help efforts to combat violence against women For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.