The service was attended by hundreds of people who had come to show their support for the relatives of Mokoena and to hear the tributes which were paid to the University of Johannesburg student. Mokoena was said to have been ambitious, goal driven, spiritual and full of life. She had lots of potential, many said, and her life was cut short before she could fully realise it. Mokoena died on April 29, allegedly at the hands of her ex-boyfriend, Sandile Mantsoe, who is in police custody. Her funeral will be held on Friday, May 19 at Diepkloof Hall at 8am. READ MORE: PICS, VIDEO: Inside Karabo Mokoena s emotional memorial service See images below of the service Friends and family members of murdered Karabo Mokoena are pictured during a memorial ceremony held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. It is alleged that she died at the hands of her boyfriend. Picture: Refilwe Modise A portrait of murdered Karabo Mokoena is displayed at the front of the Diepkloof Hall during a memorial ceremony, 17 May 2017. It is alleged that she died at the hands of her boyfriend. Picture: Refilwe Modise Family members of murdered Karabo Mokoena are pictured during a memorial ceremony held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. It is alleged that she died at the hands of her boyfriend. Picture: Refilwe Modise The family murdered Karabo Mokoena looks on during a memorial ceremony held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. It is alleged that she died at the hands of her boyfriend. Picture: Refilwe Modise Murdered Karabo Mokoena's mother walks passed a portrait of her daughter as she exits the Diepkloof Hall following a memorial ceremony held in honor of Karabo, 17 May 2017. Picture: Refilwe Modise Friends and family members mourn during a memorial service in honor of deceased Karabo Mokoena held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. Picture: Refilwe Modise Friends and family members mourn during a memorial service in honor of deceased Karabo Mokoena held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. Picture: Refilwe Modise Friends and family members mourn during a memorial service in honor of deceased Karabo Mokoena held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. Picture: Refilwe Modise Murdered Karabo Mokoena's parents arrive for a memorial service in her honor at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. Picture: Refilwe Modise Friends and family members mourn during a memorial service in honor of deceased Karabo Mokoena held at the Diepkloof Hall, 17 May 2017. Picture: Refilwe Modise READ MORE: WATCH: Karabo left him, upset to see Sandile again &#8211; friend at memorial For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.