Blessed with the ability of identifying fashionable trends, Soweto-born celebrity, campaign stylist and entrepreneur Dumi Gwebu and Nigeria s A-list stylist Jeremiah Ogbodo better known as Swanky are testament to Coco Chanel s quote fashion fades, only style remains the same . Both made their debuts in front of the lens before becoming stylists. Gwebu started out his career as a model in the 90s and with time, grew fonder of the business behind the camera. The transition was natural, I have always known I wanted to work in fashion and because I am bossy, I couldn t handle being bossed around. So the only thing better to do was to become the boss. Having worked with SA stars, including Touch Central HD owner Tbo Touch, Metro FM host Lothando Lootlove, and Quantico series actress Pearl Thusi, Gwebu has stayed relevant through the comings and goings of talent and trends. For this trendy dad of two, following his passion has been among his greatest achievements and this is evident through his long list of recommendations to use his expert opinion for red carpet and billboard shoot looks. But it was never easy for Gwebu as his profession used to be mostly female dominated. Yet for this modern-day-man, racing against time while finding the perfect dress or glass shoe, is but another thrill to his day. Gwebu has used his connections and talents and formed a lucrative business in advertising wardrobe styling, which has led him to working on many TV, billboard and print campaigns, both locally and internationally. I ve started an affordable office wear label DumiGwebuEdits, targeting young trendy professionals who are corporate, yet have a passion for fashion and are restricted by the rules and regulations of their industries, says Gwebu. What defines this trendsetter is his flair for up-and-coming fashion retailers. I love working with young fashion retailers and not designers, simply because everyone else is focusing on designers and forgetting those small fashion outlets which still play a role in the industry. Nigerian-born, Jeremiah Ogbodo, who got his nickname Swanky from his uncle at age seven, already has style and finesse. During his childhood, young Ogbodo used his talent to assist his sisters to get ready for church or celebrations which called for a specific dress code. In 2012, he ventured into business with a few Nigerian artists in Lagos, w h i c h led to the launch of Swanky Signatures. After my launch the very first job I got was through a big contract with Davido, who was shooting a series of music videos in New York. It happened the same time as New York Fashion Week and I got the chance to attend the shows, which I enjoyed.&#8221; For this award-winning fashion and celebrity stylist, his fame rose overnight yet to his surprise it has been a test of his ability to not only make well-fitted clothes for men, but to redefine what it means to be a stylish African in the 21st century. Since his fashion debut, Ogbodo has went on to become a global fashion guru, mostly motivated by the city Lagos and its people and having a team of loyal people who ensure that the brand reaches its full potential. There is no difference between fashion and entertainment. I don t see how you can entertain people but cannot live up to the standards of the industry, says the entrepreneur who has now ventured into dressing political figures, including Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari. If anything, Ogbodo s fast-growing career and brand is revolutionising African fashion pride, proving him to be unconventional and setting him apart from his peers. International award-winning Nkosinathi Maphumulo, better known as DJ Black Coffee, and deodorant and fragrance brand Axe have formed a partnership to find and showcase Africa s top house music talent on an international stage at one of the largest music festival on the Spanish island of Ibiza. Speaking at the launch, the men s fragrance and deodorant brand manager Ryan Fauconier said: Axe believes a man is at his best and most attractive when he finds his magic that special thing that m a k e s him unique. Axe believes in owning your thing. Black Coffee is an artist who has definitely found his magic a proudly African beat that is dominating the world stage. But for Black Coffee it s not all about personal success. He s on a mission to share local talent with the rest of the world, said Fauconier. At the launch of the DJ search, Axe also introduced the Advanced Fragrance Collection to the South African market. The new addition to the Axe family is a premium range of grooming products that helps men express their individuality so they can look, feel and act their most attractive. Comprising of three lines Signature, Adrenaline and Urban each line consists of cologne, antiperspirant aerosol and roll-on. These products offer a variety of benefits, including anti-marks, micro-active capsules and silver technology. ALSO READ: Details: Riky Rick&#8217;s R5 million luxury vehicles For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.