The Western Cape High Court has confirmed a sentence of seven years jail for a man who raped a young woman as she lay sleeping on a couch after a party, a court in Cape Town heard on Tuesday. Trevor Prodgers , 31, appeared on Tuesday in the Parow Sexual Offences Court, where he was jailed in July last year by magistrate Mandy van Leeve. Prodgers is now to take his appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals (SCA), his lawyer, Eben Potgieter, informed the court. When his case was called on Tuesday, he was brought from the court s holding cells, and released on R1,000 bail, pending the outcome of the SCA appeal. According to the court record, Prodgers met his victim, 26, at a club in Bellville, in Cape Town s northern suburbs, in May, 2014. The victim and colleagues were partying with their employer at a club in Bellville, where Prodgers met her, and he joined her when the group continued their party at the employer s home. The court heard that the victim only had two drinks that night, but that the drinks knocked her out . She recalled rejecting Prodgers sexual advances, before she fell into a deep sleep on a couch in the employer s home. When she eventually awoke, she was lying naked on the couch. The court heard that Prodgers had afterwards kept regular contact with her by way of phone calls and SMS messages and, when she later informed him that she was pregnant, he told her that he was the father. She alleged that Prodgers had had sex with her, without her consent, while she slept. Also on the court record was the result of a paternity test, which confirmed him as the father of her baby. During the proceedings, the victim said she did not recall consenting to sexual relations with Prodgers. Prosecutor Dersia Rabie asked her: Are you saying that you don t remember consenting to sex, or that you do not remember having sex at all? She replied: I do not remember either I didn t and still don t remember it. It is not known when the SCA appeal is to be heard, or when the outcome will be known. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.