eThekwini Municipality s R45-billion budget would be used to expedite radical economic growth and achieve radical economic transformation , according to city mayor Zandile Gumede. We have a vision of seeing Indians and Africans equally benefiting in the city s economy, Gumede said speaking at a special full council meeting at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Convention Centre (ICC) on Wednesday afternoon, where the budget was to be adopted. The biggest challenge of our time is to transform the South African economy in an inclusive manner. Our economy must reduce unemployment and eliminate poverty. Gumede said the city was unapologetic about promoting black economic transformation. Those who want to do business with the city must get used to black. The R45 billion comprised an operating budget of R37.5 billion and a capital budget of R7.5 billion. We have achieved a lot, but our long walk [to freedom] has not ended, especially in terms of economic freedom. The first pillar that makes up radical economic transformation is ownership and control of the economy; the second is the delivery of basic services, she said. Radical economic transformation was intended to bring about inclusive growth, she said. The budget also ensured that black businesses were assisted in becoming big businesses, and this would be done through municipal procurement processes. The budget also allowed for townships and rural areas to be transformed into commercially viable areas. Among the big ticket items to spread over the next three years were R325m to replace 150 existing busses and R764-million to buy 190 busses. Later this year the city is expected to roll out the first phase of its version of the bus rapid transport system called Go! Durban. The municipality currently operates a fleet of 531 busses. Gumede announced the city would erect a statue of former African National Congree (ANC) president Oliver Tambo at city hall. Luthuli was a symbol of unity, she said, and had been the inspiration for her budget, which she touted as a people s budget delivered by a people s mayor . She said that it was not good that people remained divided and said it was hoped that Tambo s legacy would unite residents and remind them of who they were and where they were going. With the city still recovering from poor water reserves, the cost of water would increase by 15 percent for residential and 17% for commercial properties. As has become the custom with pro-poor budgets in municipalities countrywide, there would be rate exemptions for qualifying pensioners, child-headed households, the medically boarded and the disabled, unless their property value exceeded R2 million. There would also be a total rate exemption for properties valued up to R230 000. African News Agency (ANA) ALSO READ: Opposition MPs jeer as Zuma says he s not opposed to state capture probe For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.