Several suspects, believed to be part of a carjacking syndicate, were nabbed over the weekend during a multidisciplinary police sting operation. Provincial police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo said during the last release of the crime statistics, the crime category of aggravated robbery, particularly the crimes of house robberies, business robberies and carjackings, was highlighted as being extremely problematic and concerning. He said the police s top management met early in March and drafted a National Trio Crimes Action Plan to tackle these crimes in a coordinated and focused manner. Last week, on Friday 12 May 2017, members of SAPS Crime Intelligence uncovered information on a hijacked BMW X5 which led to the arrest of four suspects in Middelburg. Following further intelligence received, a team comprising of members the SAPS Detective Service, Visible Policing, Special Task Force, Vehicle Crimes Unit, DPCI supported by Tracker and Bidvest Protea Coin &#8211; arrested a further two suspects in Lenasia, south of Johannesburg and recovered another nine luxury vehicles to the value of approximately R7 million, Naidoo said. These vehicles included a Porsche 911, BMW M3, Audi RS 7, Mercedes Benz, Toyota Hilux double cab, Ford Ranger double cab, an H1 mini-bus and two motor cycles. Naidoo said all these vehicles were hijacked in various areas in and around Johannesburg and Pretoria. The team also recovered a hand-held radio and two firearms which will be ballistically tested to establish if they were used in the commission of any crimes. Approximately R600 000 in cash was also seized, he said. The suspects are likely to face charges of being in possession of vehicles suspected to be stolen. Further charges could well be added as investigations and liaison with the prosecuting authority continues. They will appear in the Lenasia Magistrates&#8217; Court tomorrow. Naidoo said as part of the implementation of the National Trio Crimes Action Plan, the SAPS is liaising and working closely with other role players in, inter alia, the security, banking and vehicle industries and their support is appreciated. He said investigations continue and more arrests cannot be ruled out.