Kgosi Mampuru inmates sing the national anthem during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles A Kgosi Mampuru inmate blows on a Vuvuzela during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles A Kgosi Mampuru inmate blows on a Vuvuzela during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Cheerleaders from Johannesburg Female Prison during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Cheerleaders from Johannesburg Female Prison during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Inmates from different prisons gathered on the stands at the Kgosi Mampuru Sport fields during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles A Kgosi Mampuru inmate blows on a Vuvuzela during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Inmates from Johannesburg Female Prison listen to a correctional services worker's pep talk during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Inmates from Johannesburg Female Prison listen to a correctional services worker's pep talk during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles An inmate from Johannesburg Female Prison sqaures off with an inmate from Kgosi Mampuru Prison during a match between the two woman teams at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Goal keeper for Johannesburg Female Prison deflects a goal attempt from an inmate from Kgosi Mampuru Prison during a match between the two woman teams at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Inmates from Johannesburg Female Prison listen to a correctional services workers during half time at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Inmates from from different prisons from accross the country cheer during the woman's game at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Inmates from from different prisons from accross the country cheer during the woman's game at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kgosi Mampuru inmates celebrate their win against Johannesburg Woman Prison during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles A correctional services worker doubles up as a DJ during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles A player from Baviaanspoort Prison (L) and a player from Leeuwkop Prison during a match at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles A player from Leeuwkop Prison deflects an attempt on goal from a Baviaanspoort player during a match at the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles Kgosi Mampuru inmates are seen waiting for the games to begin during the launch of the Gauteng Offender Soccer Development League at the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Services sport grounds, 30 May 2017, Pretoria. Picture: Jacques Nelles