More than 20% of South African children have symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and urgently need treatment, reports the Lowvelder. Researchers at the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences (FMHS) at Stellenbosch University (SU) are studying new avenues of providing this essential psychological treatment in a violent society with a high exposure to trauma such as that in South Africa. This research has particular significance during Child Protection Week, commemorated from 27 May to 2 June, during which the focus is placed on the well-being of children. In a study undertaken in South Africa, 14.5% of adolescents met criteria for PTSD. An additional 10.3% of adolescents met partial criteria for PTSD, but were still functionally impaired. The FMHS study examines how children and teenagers who have experienced a traumatic event and developed PTSD can potentially be counselled by registered nurses trained by an expert. We hope our study can help increase the access of adolescents with PTSD to much-needed support in a developing country such as South Africa, said principal researcher Jaco Rossouw. PTSD is a mental health condition that is triggered by exposure to actual or threatened death, serious injury or sexual violence. As is the case with adults, PTSD in children and adolescents is usually chronic and debilitating. It can cause long-term suffering. Symptoms include avoidance behaviour, flashbacks, nightmares and severe anxiety, as well as uncontrollable thoughts about the event. The study investigates the effectiveness of trauma treatment provided by registered nurses, trained by an expert, to socio-economically deprived adolescents in high schools in Cape Town. The nurses offering the support are trained to provide prolonged exposure therapy as well as supportive counselling. Both these treatments have been proven effective in adults and adolescents with PTSD. The study focuses on teenagers who were either exposed to trauma such as physical or sexual assault, or have witnessed sexual or physical assault or a violent death. These participants were recruited at their schools and received weekly PTSD treatment there. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.