Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa engaged in a dialogue with media experts discussing challenges and how to better the conditions in the continent for Africa Month. The minister said Africa Month sought to increase appreciation and demand for art and culture goods and services to stimulate competitive markets for intra-Africa trade. Since we started in 2015, there has been a lot of support from the continent and diaspora, it s crossing the continent, interacting with my colleagues who have accepted the idea. The are practical challenges for instance on the actual hosting, the resources and other things But we believe as it grows, we will be able to hand it to another country. The theme of this year&#8217;s Africa Month is: The Year OR Tambo: Building a Better Africa and a Better World . Planned actives would culminate with Africa Day celebrations on May 25. We will celebrate this month through festivals, music, visual arts, literature, drama and a host of other activities. The minister said the aim of the celebration also sought to improve understanding and integration in the country. Journalists and editors who were part of the panel during the dialogue shared the same sentiments and said the media tends to paint Africa in a negative light, overlooking the good things that are happening in the country. A nation or community that doesn t know itself can t properly tell its story. If we are to own our own narrative, we must know who we are, who our heroes are and what they stood for, said Jovial Rantao, the head of African Editors&#8217; Forum. Rantao said it s important to sustain this programme because it speaks to the continent, builds the future and nobody can tell African stories like Africans. Hajra Omarjee, a political editor at Power FM, said the failure of the 90 percent local content which was implemented by the South African Broadcasting Corporation was related to politics and a result of populist rhetoric being turned into policy without a plan to make sure it succeeded. Omarjee said the country needed to build enough local content before attempting to dominate on the content. Omarjee said the media needed to unlearn how they have been taught to report about Africa. African News Agency (ANA) Truth needed to rebuild Coligny, says premier For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.