On Monday evening, the SA Police Service (SAPS) confirmed the incident which resulted in the fatal shooting of one person near the OR Tambo International Airport. In a statement, police said the incident took place at around 4.30pm on Monday. A man driving a Hyundai H1 motor vehicle was shot dead by a brazen group of criminals while driving towards the airport this afternoon, read the statement. Police further stated police members were processing the crime scene and interviewing victims and witnesses. Preliminary reports indicate that the driver of the Hyundai H1 was transporting a group of six business people from Johannesburg to the airport and en route at least one vehicle attempted to flag them down. The driver of the Hyundai H1 (the deceased) continued on towards the airport. Reportedly, as he took the off-ramp from the highway to the airport, the vehicle was blocked by two other vehicles, one being a black VW Golf, and the driver was shot and fatally wounded. The suspects drove off in the H1 with the passengers. They were abandoned by the suspects in Rhodesfield, Kempton Park, after being robbed of some of their belongings including cellular phones. None of the passengers were injured, according to initial reports, the police statement read. Acting National Commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane said, &#8220;The SAPS will thoroughly investigate this heinous and violent crime committed close to a national key point, the OR Tambo International Airport. We would not at this stage want to speculate on the motive for the crime. Once we have further facts at our disposal gathered from the crime scene, victims, witnesses and other relevant evidence, we will be in a position to make further details available.&#8221; The police statement further stated that SAPS was concerned about the arrogance displayed by the perpetrators and added that they would ensure that a thorough investigation was conducted, leading to the arrest and prosecution of those involved. The police further appealed to anyone with information which may assist the SAPS in the investigation into this crime to contact Crime Stop on 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211, anonymously if needs be. Earlier: One person was shot dead near OR Tambo International Airport on Monday afternoon. Social cohesion advocate Yusuf Abramjee tweeted at 4.44pm on Monday that the incident &#8220;looks like a hijacking&#8221;. Shooting reported at @ortambo_int &#8211; looks like a hijacking. &mdash; Yusuf Abramjee (@Abramjee) May 15, 2017 EWN is reporting the incident is an apparent assassination. The report further stated that it was alleged an unknown number of men alighted from a VW Golf 7 which stopped at the arrivals and departures terminal on Jones Street. The suspects then opened fire, reported EWN. A neighbourhood group alleged that eight perpetrators were involved in the incident and left the scene in two vehicles. Police are reportedly investigating. Abramjee also tweeted a video in which the body can be seen lying on the road. The man filming the video is seen approaching a vehicle close to where the shooting took place. The man filming asks what happened and opens the driver&#8217;s door. The driver is visibly shaken by the incident. A man then comes forward and says a vehicle approached and, with AK47s, they shot the person. He then said he would call the police. Warning: the video below, tweeted by Yusuf Abramjee, is disturbing and contains strong language: One person shot dead at @ortambo_int &#8211; WATCH: (Warning: Language and graphic) pic.twitter.com/Aw2l1YplVm &mdash; Yusuf Abramjee (@Abramjee) May 15, 2017 In a statement, OR Tambo International Airport&#8217;s management said it was made aware of the &#8220;very unfortunate and deeply concerning matter&#8221; and said law enforcement was investigating the crime scene which was off the R24, along Ring Road. This leads to the airport&#8217;s arrivals and departures roadway, the management said. &#8220;We are awaiting further information from law enforcement on this matter.&#8221; ALSO READ: WATCH: Suspect crashes hijacked police vehicle For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp;