The South African Rugby Union (Saru) on Tuesday delivered what it believed is a winning bid to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup at World Rugby headquarters in Dublin, Ireland. Jurie Roux, CEO of Saru, handed in the 827-page, 8.2kg document, detailing South Africa s compelling case to host the tournament. Also read: Thulas Nxesi seems positive over SA hosting 2023 Rugby World Cup This is a momentous day for South African rugby and in November, when the decision is made, we hope it will ignite the beginning of a six-year journey to a climatic conclusion at the National Stadium in Johannesburg in front of 84 373 spectators in the biggest and most spectacular Rugby World Cup final there has ever been, said Roux. South Africa has the hunger and capacity to host this tournament like no other country on earth. We bid for the 2011, 2015 and 2019 tournaments and here we are again for 2023, proving that for our sport and country this is not just a desire it is an obsession. But our bid is far from being just about what it means to rugby in South Africa; it is all about what South Africa can do for world rugby. We believe we have submitted the strongest technical bid supported by world-class venues and outstanding training facilities in an ideal climate against a stunning African backdrop. Players will be able to perform in the ideal conditions of a dry and sunny South African spring, offering an unforgettable playing experience for players. We will maximise the commercial benefit for World Rugby with a low-cost, high-return event in a country that has the infrastructure and major event experience to turn on a colossal event. Roux said that the combination of infrastructure, environment and climate would allow the sport to showcase the very best it has to offer, inspiring South Africa, Africa and the world. He added that he believed that the commercial model contained in the bid would be hard to beat while 2.9m match tickets would be available. Unlike other mega-sporting events, South Africa would profit from hosting the tournament. We predict that hosting Rugby World Cup 2023 would have a R27bn direct, indirect and induced economic impact on South Africa; R5.7bn would flow to low income households; 38 600 temporary or permanent jobs would be sustained and there d be an estimated R1.4bn tax benefit to government. &nbsp; Ireland and France are also bidding to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup. World Rugby is set to announce the successful applicant on 15 November. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.