The Stormers recovered from a poor start to gain a well-deserved 30-22 win over the Blues at Newlands on Friday evening. After a nightmarish tour of New Zealand, Robbie Fleck&#8217;s troops show fine composure and defended brilliantly to subdue opponents, whose discipline cost them and struggled to deal with Jaco van Heerden&#8217;s inconsistent refereeing. Who was the star in this match? Stormers skipper Siya Kolisi led from the front in this game, especially in being a nuisance at the breakdown and was rewarded with a try. However, eighthman Nizaam Carr showed an unwanted reputation of disappearing in tight games isn&#8217;t quite the truth. He completed an astonishing 17 tackles and held up well as a ball-carrier. Key themes and events Poor execution early on threatened to derail the hosts. Following a yellow for Blues winger Matt Duffie for repeated off-side infringements, the Stormers failed to capitalise on an attacking movement close to the line when they conceded a turnover. It was the type of scoring opportunity you need to take against New Zealand opposition. The Blues steadily gained control despite a sluggish line-out and took advantage when Stormers lock Eben Etzebeth lost his temper and went to the sin bin. With visiting prop Charlie Faumuina first drawing three defenders en then floating a lovely off-load, the New Zealanders scored twice. However, the Stormers refused to back down from a 3-12 deficit and gained vital momentum when an attacking line-out was patiently used as platform for Kolisi to dive over from close range. The Stormers&#8217; ability to recover quickly from setbacks was a feature of the second half, especially after Sonny Bill Williams&#8217; skill led to the Blues&#8217; third try. From 10-19 down, the Capetonians took control by taking control in the collisions, trying to disrupt the set-pieces and taking their chances well. Flyhalf Dillyn Leyds&#8217; quick-thinking from a tap gave the Stormers a crucial lead. Duffie dived on Stormers wing Cheslin Kolbe for a second yellow and his sending-off meant the Blues were fighting a losing battle. That said, replacement Sikhumbuzo Notshe&#8217;s try was suspect as he seemed to make a double movement. Despite some early odd errors, the Stormers defended superbly in this game, emphatically putting their tackling problems in New Zealand behind them. Point scorers Stormers &#8211; Try: Siya Kolisi, Dillyn Leyds, Sikhumbuzo Notshe. Conversions: SP Marais (3). Penalties: Marais (3). Blues &#8211; Tries: George Moala, James Parsons, Blake Gibson. Conversions: Piers Francis (2). Penalty: Bryn Gatland. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.