Did you ever know that children are very eager to learn as they grow? Children tend to learn many new things when they are young. Today Young Citizen takes a look at we can help children learn how to save money.We all know that children don t work or do anything which can help them to earn money so it s important to teach children positive lessons about money from a young age.When a child learns at an early age it becomes a habit, This is likely to happen when it comes to saving some of the little money that she gets as pocket money.Saving is not easy and that is why even some adults fail because they didn t learn at an early age which nakes it difficult to start as a grown up.Today we take a look at some simple ways of helping a child learn on how to save.In grade school, children should be learning about the financial world beyond their own piggy bank. Yes, the basics of saving, spending, investing and borrowing, but also more advanced concepts like compound interest, budgets and insurance against financial risk.Saving and investing:1. The difference between saving and investing.2. The concept of compound interest.Income:3. Possible sources of income (not including mom and dad), like salaries, benefits and interest rates.4. Why more education can lead to more income.Spending:5. You can t buy everything you want. What goes into deciding to buy something?6. How to count and use money.7. What is a budget? And what goes into making one?Borrowing and financial risk:8. Borrowing allows you to buy things now and pay for them in the future.9. Credit is when you use someone else s money for a fee, and interest is the fee you pay to borrow money through credit.10. Financial risk is an unavoidable part of life, and you can choose to protect yourself by avoiding risks or taking out insurance.Tips for parents to help their childrenLead as exampleIt s never too early to introduce the topic of money to a child, especially if a parent approaches the process by leading through example. Children look up to their parents and often model their parents behaviors and choices. It is better to show them how you save, invest, donate and spend money wisely.Set short-term and long-term goalsAsk your child what goals he has for the immediate future and what goals he has for the next year and beyond.Look through catalogs together, bring a notepad along the next time you go shopping together and allow your child to write down the cost of items, add them up and create specific goals to work toward. Tip: Open a savings account for your child and make weekly or monthly trips to the bank to deposit money.Pay yourself first/create a savingsExplain to your child how to save a small portion from the money he earns. This strategy is an automatic way to create healthy saving habits or pay yourself. Give an allowanceA good age to start an allowance is 7 or 8. An allowance can be used as a gateway to budgeting and money management, and it provides a child with the necessary tools to learn about savings and cause and effect.Be clearSet guidelines ahead of time so your child knows that if he spends it all in one place, there s nothing left for the rest of the week.Allowance tips/Make a budgetBudget out a weekly allowance for spending money -- lunch money, after school snacks at the sports field, etc.(Additional materials from &amp;www.discover.com)