 I hope it s not too late to exchange Easter greetings but never the nevertheless; Christ the redeemer is alive, halleluiah!Yes, the season came and went. So what? We had not met yet!Those were the words of a friend who I had not met for quite some time.John is no ordinary friend he works with the anti-corruption brigade.So usually people are wary of his presence at our little pub.I am one of the few who don t avoid his dangerous company when he happens to have some time to hang around. Hope, you enjoyed your Easter festivities too. I responded making sure my hypocritical smile was as wide as ever and then quickly capped it with a strategic request. I say niko vibaya leo, buy me one. As you know in these days of Kazi tu , it s all about timing. It is called preemptive strategic maneuvering. Bomb them before you are hit, the Israeli style. Mmh man, the guy said like he was weighing the pros and cons of my bid.Then after some while he says, Ok, but first sit down. That pleased me as I was sitting I called Chiku to come with a cold small one.John went on, One thing I noticed this Easter, there were unusually large numbers of people converging in prayer houses. Aah, whatever it was, I said With the masses back I guess the church coffers made the most of it and the clergy s pockets are now in a better shape, John said cheekily, as we laughed in unison. Well the days after Easter haven t been particularly happy ones for our men in uniform, John said gloomily. I mean the guys who are supposed to be protecting you and your properties. I knew that as a man of the system he regarded himself being something special from a civilian like me. Another Eight shot dead somewhere in the Coast Region. God have mercy. What is this country turning into? I said putting up a face. It is hard to believe that such a wave of criminality is happening in Tanzania. The bottle had been brought, so I took the drink to quench the thirst that was consuming me.The cold stuff felt so refreshing in the scotching afternoon heat. I mean there have been a few others in the recent past happening in our beloved Bongo, a land of the passive citizenry. Everybody is in a sombre mood at the moment. John commentedBut I had a blame or two to flash out regarding what happened to the security fellows in Coast Region. I wanted to get the wrath off my chest.So I said, Maybe, somehow it is a wakeup call to our office-bearers and the law enforcement bosses. For God s sake,John. I found myself speaking a little bite louder. Stop using the forces as political tools. John started saying something but I over rode him and went on, No, no, it s no secret too much politicking involving the squad powers to the extent that the core obligations have been forgotten. Cool down, Mzee bona umekuwa mkali hivyo? Hapana bwana, it is time the truth must be said, the force is being starved of almost everything, from man power to office stationary. If anyone arguing against that, they should have their form four certificates inspected by Necta. John kept on listening.Charged up I went on, You know it John, in terms of remunerations; the force has been left to fend for itself through petty and grand exploitations. Worse still , what do you expect when some semi-illiterate guys without even ordinary level school credentials are allowed to toy around with troops top brass. Kamanda Zombie bla bla bla wee Zoba wewe .. I mimicked.Suddenly I realized I was drinking from an empty bottle. Du, kazi tu! 