One of the most anticipated BMW M models this year, the new BMW M4 DTM Champion Edition, is now available in South Africa. . In October last year BMW M launched the limited high-performance coupe in honour of BMW Motorsport Works driver Marco Wittmann, who secured the DTM driver s title in the 2016 season finale at the Hockenheimring. Compared to the series production BMW M4, the BMW M4 DTM Champion Edition model, which is limited worldwide to 200 units and only 15 in SA delivers a power output that has been increased by 51kW to 368kW and a maximum torque of 600Nm an increase of 50Nm. All 15 units in South Africa are sold out. The BMW M4 DTM Champion Edition impresses with outstanding figures. It completes the sprint from 0 100km/h in 3.8 seconds, for example; and the top speed is limited to 305km/h, it is claimed. This performance is possible through innovative water injection technology featured in the six-cylinder power unit, already known from the BMW M4 GTS. Cooling of the combustion chambers by this technology significantly raises the engine s thermally related performance limits, as the 16% increase in power output vs the production model proves. The BMW M4 DTM Champion Edition is exclusively available in Alpine White. Design and shaping of the foiling is reminiscent of the look of DTM racing cars produced by BMW Motorsport, thus making the edition model s close ties with the brand s successes in the popular international touring car series evident at first glance. Various aerodynamics components finished in visible carbon give the car that distinctive racing car look. These include the front splitter, the aero flicks positioned in front of the front wheel arches, exterior mirror caps, side skirt attachments, a rear diffuser, as well as the large rear wing firmly mounted on the boot. Inside the two-seater, both driver and co-driver sit in M Carbon bucket seats, covered in exclusive Alcantara/Leather Merino. Furthermore, the entire interior is lined with the high-quality covering material Alcantara, also used on the M Sports steering wheel, sporting a grey 12 o clock marker. Behind the front bucket seats, a white rollover bar replaces the rear seat system. In terms of comfort and safety, the edition model is by no means sparsely equipped. . Features include the BMW navigation system Professional, air conditioning, adaptive LED headlights with BMW Selective Beam (glare-free high beam assistant), OLED taillights, Park Distance Control (PDC) at the front and rear as well as automatically dimming interior and exterior mirrors. Compared to the production version of the BMW M4, the DTM Champion Edition impresses not only with enhanced performance, but also with further optimised dynamic handling qualities. This is also the result of even more consistent implementation of the lightweight construction concept. In addition to other components, the bonnet, roof, instrument panel support and rear diffuser are made from carbon fibre reinforced plastic (CFRP). The end silencer of the double-flow sports exhaust system featuring two pairs of tailpipes is made of exceptionally lightweight titanium. Optimal contact with the road is ensured by Michelin Pilot Sport Cup 2 high-performance tyres size 265/35 R19 at the front and 285/30 R20 at the rear, designed specifically for use on the racetrack and mounted on light alloys, boasting a star spoke design 666 M in Orbit Grey matt. M carbon-ceramic brakes guarantee fade-free braking even in tough racing conditions. The individually adjustable three-way coilover suspension is mechanically adjustable both for rebound and damping, thus allowing the car s handling characteristics to be adapted according to personal taste. Local pricing for the BMW M4 DTM Champion Edition 2016 is R2 300 000.