Gifted with a voice bigger than the body that houses it, Brenda Mtambo is among the country s most talented female Afro-soul singers. Born in Umlazi, the heart of KwaZulu-Natal, she grew up in a close-knit family of three, including her grandmother and sister. Her childhood days centred on academics as she claims to be an overachiever: always among the top 10 students in her grade. This later translated into her enrolling at the University of KwaZulu-Natal to pursue a career in accounting. I was very bright, I was a top 10 student, I thought I was going to be an accountant but everyone knew me at school because I was always in front of anything that involved music. At varsity, Mtambo joined a group of female vocalists and together they auditioned for Joyous Celebration. I was 19 when I joined Joyous and it was a great platform to learn and equip myself with all the knowledge about music that I needed. My family wasn t much into the Christian belief as I grew up with the Shembe religion, which is why those that knew me well didn t find it strange when I ventured into Afro-soul genre, admits Mtambo. Choosing to stay in the production, Mtambo saw herself become a member for seven years and though it was a great experience, her burning desire to be a solo artist seemed greater. Talking a step closer to her dream, Mtambo went on to backing internationally acclaimed award-winning artists Lira and Judith Sephuma. In 2010 I said to myself: this year I need to start working towards my recording. So I managed to organise a show at Baseline in Newtown. My mentor from Joyous, Lindelani Mkhize, sat me down to understand what it was I wanted to do but the show had to go on. Even though it wasn t the best, it was a start to my goal: I needed people to see me as Brenda Mtambo the musician, and not the girl from Joyous Celebration. Determined to earn her spot in the music industry, Mtambo took the drastic decision to resign from all her other music-related jobs, which were also her only source of income. However, with support from her friends and her knowledge of accounting, this South African Music Awards 2017 nominee went back into the corporate world. Proving that destiny relies on timing and persistence, Mtambo soon received a call from her former choir leader, Mkhize, who signed her as an Afro-soul artist in 2010. And only three years after that her debut album, Inspired, was released. By the time I had to record my first album, I already had my music and my band was familiar with the songs as we would perform around town at gigs. It was just a one-take recording. Despite the delayed response from the media and public, passionate Mtambo decided to not feel denied but even more motivated to make a second album but life had other plans: she became a wife and now mother to a handsome two-year-old son. It was only last year that Mtambo made headlines with the release of her second recording, So Much More. This album placed her squarely among the very same artists she used to back. She was nominated for best R&amp;B/ Soul album and best produced album. The South African Music Awards will be held at Sun City on May 27. ALSO READ: WHAT? Solange is coming to SA? For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.