
				                 Trainer Sean Tarry’s string is starting to come to hand after their early season hiatus for vaccinations and he sends out a couple of favourites at the Vaal today, both of which he says have chances on their form.



Tarry is hoping to qualify recent maiden winner Genesis, the 4-1 favourite in Race 9 over 1400m, for the R2.5-million Emperors Palace Ready To Run Cup presented by CTS on Charity Mile Day, Saturday 4 November. With just three weeks to go before the big race, he will have to put in a forward showing, so his odds look quite tempting.
Pilou runs with top weight in Race 7 over 1600m and is 2-1 favourite. He has had a run already this season and was only pipped on the post by Tommy Waterdevil, spreading a shoe in the race. Odds are he will have come on from that run and Tarry believes he is one for the notebook, saying “he’ll be a nice horse in time. He’ll get 2000m very comfortably”.
Tarry fields six horses at Turffontein on Saturday with Warrior’s Rest and Silver God looking most promising in Race 6 over 1450m.
“Warrior’s Rest is weighted to win and he has very good form,” said Tarry. He finished last season well (when a close-up third be- hind Eyes Wide Open after setting the gallop).
“He is in a good space and is a feature horse he’s also going for the Ready To Run Cup. But there are a few concerns. He has a poor draw and the tight inside track is against him.”
Silver God shed his maiden certificate in a strong eld on his first try over 1600m in May and has not raced since. Tarry has put blinkers on “to help him concentrate”.



He added: “This is a starting point. He has a good draw but will find the Inside track sharp. If he wins I’ll be a bonus.
“What I’d like to see is both of them running on.”
Useful-looking Aurelia Co a runs in Race 7 over 1450m. The Ashaawes filly is being prepared for the Cape Fillies Guineas and the R5-million CTS race at Kenilworth and with those goals in prospect, she should have the class to see off a strong Progress Plate field.


Liege and Samurai Blade take on Abashiri in Race 8, a 1600m Pinnacle Stakes. “Liege is a Summer Cup horse and he’ll need the run,” said Tarry. “He’ll go into the Victory Moon and then run in the Summer. On form he’s good enough to be competitive.”
Liege has only run once this year but he did finish fourth behind Master Sabina in last year’s Summer Cup and second to Bezanova in the Victory Moon


Handicap before being gelded. As for Samurai Blade, Tarry said: “He’s had a wind op and I’m expecting significant improvement this season. He is definitely underrated and is course-and distance suited.
“This is a starting point, but he’s a very happy horse who is do- ing well and I prefer him to Liege.” Sari runs for the stable in Race 9 and Tarry is not expecting reworks. “She’s not a feature horse,” he said. “She will be running on well but I’ll be satis ed if she runs into the money.”






                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  