
				                 Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu has caused a stir again with one of his latest artworks. This time courting the ire of the African National Congress (ANC) and its women’s league (ANCWL).
Pictures of Mabulu’s painting, which have been making the rounds on social media, depict ANC presidential hopeful and MP, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, engaged in sexual activity, News24 reports.
This is not the first time Mabulu has triggered uproar over his paintings.  In what appears to be a never-ending quest to both offend and shock with his hatred towards President Jacob Zuma, his painting shows the president standing with his genitals exposed as his ex-wife lies in a compromising position on her back.
ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa has called the painting an “affront not only to the individuals he [Mabulu] regularly defiles but to the very founding values of our nation and an insult to our collective morality”.
Kodwa called on the South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) and citizens who stand for the defence of the country’s constitution not to turn a blind eye to Mabulu’s latest painting.
“Mabulu has no conception of our societal mores and is a disgrace to any attempt that may or may not have been made to socialise him on our shared morality,” Kodwa said in a statement.
‘Rented tool used by the enemies of the ANC’
The ANCWL said in a statement on Friday it had noted with “great dismay” Mabulu’s latest painting, but it was not surprised by it. The league said the artist has been consistent on producing “grotesque paintings” depicting leaders of the ANC in a distasteful way.
“In our analysis as the ANCWL, Mr Mabulu is just a rented tool used by the enemies of the ANC to assassinate characters of ANC leaders using Mabulu’s painting skills,” ANCWL spokesperson Meokgo Matuba said.
“Their decision to use the likes of Mabulu is to hide behind media freedom and freedom of expression to advance their malicious smear campaign tactics.
“The painting of Mr Mabulu depicting Cde President Jacob Zuma and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in a distasteful way is a desperate move by the white monopoly capital and their praise singers, using a rented black painter to tarnish the image of these leaders hoping that it will stop winding wheels of radical economic transformation.”
Matuba said Mabulu was “an unfortunate mentally colonised artist who has been brainwashed [to think] that the political leaders, in particular Africans, must be attacked without shame and remorse.”
Here’s your reaction to Mabulu’s latest painting on Twitter:














ALSO READ:
Mabulu may face criminal charges from ANC over Zuma-Mandela sex painting

                         	                  