
				                 


Hong Kong – One might have to wait until the final event on the eight-race Happy Valley card today for the best bet and best value of the programme but it should be worth the wait with Tony Millard’s Super Form and David Ferraris’ Kiram expected to fight out the finish.
The clear preference is for Millard’s Super Form who was supremely impressive when winning first-up this season over the Happy Valley 1600m, beating Premium Champion who managed to frank that form last week. The rise in grade means he carries 5kg less and Karis Teetan has commented that this galloper feels “much-improved” from last term. To keep him ticking over the son of Azamour has had a trial and moved stylishly and should represent fantastic Eachway value. And there is one main danger from Ferraris’ yard with Kiram, who has Joao Moreira booked to ride. The positive for Kiram backers, and the majority of the public is they love to side with Moreira, while on this occasion the positive for Super Form backers is they get be er odds with Moreira getting aboard this fellow. It should be a good Exacta play with Super Form taken on top from Kiram.



Ferraris and Teetan combine in the seventh event with Fantastic Feeling and he looks a genuine chance to hit the frame at good odds based on his seasonal return when he flashed home to finish third over 1200m at the city course. In fact, he is a four-time winner over the course and distance and with the benefit of that run he might be able to make it five, although including him a Trifecta along with Smart Boy (Chad Schofield), Super Leader (Dougie Whyte), All Great Friends and Wonderful Journey might be a better option.


Ferraris has a solid chance to win the fourth event on the card with Rock The Tree, who has boom apprentice Ma hew Poon booked to ride. He appeals as an Eachway chance.


Moreira should ride a winner in the sixth event with Magic Albert who has been a beaten favourite on all three Hong Kong outings. He has to venture to the city circuit for the first time but has finally drawn a good barrier and should prove hard to beat and looks one of the be er win bets on the card.






                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  