
				                 To commemorate International Coming Out Day this month, the Thami Dish Foundation has launched a first of its kind for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transexual, Intersexual, Queer-Questioning and others (LGBTIQ+) community to connect young gays in South Africa and across the globe.
The LGBTIQ+ Global Network is a platform that will link non-governmental organisations (NGOs), LGBTIQ+ affinity groups, LGBTIQ+ activists, corporates and governments in a bid to form partnerships that benefit the global community.
The Thami Dish Foundation is an LGBTIQ+ focused NPO geared to educating societies, providing opportunities for LGBTIQ+ youth and creating inclusive communities.
Through event-based platforms, such as conferences and community outreach projects, young members of the community can interact on a global scale with the goal of desensitising the issues the community faces.
“My vision has always been to create platforms that advance the protection, promotion and visibility of LGBTIQ+ people, identities and communities.
“We want this network to unite the world’s LGBTQ+ community. We should speak with one voice and show that we are powerful if we work together,” said chairperson of the foundation Thami Kotlolo.
Coming on board is Emil Wilbekin, New York-based journalist, activist and founder of an American movement for black gay men called Native Son.
He said he was excited about joining forces with the foundation to promote the unity of the LGBTIQ+ community.
After the launch of the forum there will be a five-day global conference in South Africa in October 2018.
It will encourage networking and explore synergies around various forms of activism, expression and economic opportunities. The inaugural theme is Unlocking the world by linking LGBTIQ+ communities globally.
“The network is my dream – created by LGBTQ+ groups for the benefit of communities globally to engage, learn and grow. The time has come to have collective ownership and commitment,” said Kotlolo.
– kgosim@citizen.co.za
                         	                  