
				                 


London – Ship Of The Fen can finally get off the mark for Martyn Meade today as he switches to handicap company at Nottingham.
This Champs Elysees colt has drawn a blank in three starts to date, but his efforts in novice and maiden heats have at least demonstrated a modicum of promise.
The form of his initial third has not worked out brilliantly while his subsequent Sandown h appears to be nothing special, but there was much to like about his runner-up spot at Goodwood last time out.
Beaten five lengths by Showroom that day, Ship Of The Fen could not make up the ground he conceded early on against what seemed to be a pretty smart front-running winner.


Ship Of The Fen was staying on all the way, so an extra 200m in the Breeders Backing Racing EBF Nursery Handicap should suit while an initial mark of 75 could prove quite generous on the handicapper’s behalf.
For this reason Ship Of The Fen has been selected as the Nap bet and, with Bluer De Vega running at Kempton, as the best All-To-Come bet of the day.
Rosarno has been dropping through the ratings this term but can arrest his decline in the first division of the 32Redsport. com Handicap.
Rated 83 at the start of the year, Rosarno has been well be- low par on each of his five runs, with a fourth place at Sandown in June the best he has mustered. However, Rosarno has shown a preference for cut in the ground and he came good around this time last year, so perhaps he just thrives in the autumn air.



A step down in both class and distance adds to his appeal. Sevenna Star looks the one to follow in the EBF Stallions Oath Restricted Maiden Stakes after finishing a fair second on his racecourse bow at Sandown last month.


Blue De Vega denitely mer its a second glance as he makes his debut for Robert Cowell in the ebfstallions.com Conditions Stakes at Kempton.
Formerly trained by Michael O’Callaghan in Ireland, Blue De Vega shaped as a possible topnotcher during his juvenile days, winning the Group 3 Killavullan Stakes in his final two-year-old start.
His Classic campaign began in similar vein, finishing second to Awtaad in a Listed heat before going on to be third behind that same horse in the Irish 2000 Guineas.


However, he failed to really kick on from there and after finishing last of six runners behind Gordon Lord Byron in a Curragh Group 2 in May, Blue De Vega made the switch across the Irish Sea. – Press Association






                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  