
				                 London – John Gosden’s team is gearing up for a big weekend with Cracksman leading the charge on Champions Day and Eldritch can give the yard a nice little boost with victory at Newcastle.
Clearly the Bowburn Hotel Handicap is some way beneath Saturday’s lofy contests, but it nevertheless represents a good opportunity for Eldritch to get back on the winning track.
He had four subsequent winners behind him when winning on his racecourse bow at Haydock last October and he seemed destined for beter things when winning Doncaster handicap on his return this year.
Eldritch failed to sparkle at Goodwood on his next start in May and was then off the track until earlier this month, being gelded in the interim.
His return at Kempton earlier this month was decent enough and he was putting in all his best work at the finish of the 2200m to claim fourth.
A step up in trip makes sense and he could be one to follow through the winter.
Corked made a fine belated return to action at Chelmsford last month and can kick on again
in the Ramside Hall Hotel Fillies’ Handicap.
The four-year-old has yet to actually get her head in front in six starts to date, but there is
plenty of hope she can make it seventh time lucky.
She struggled to make her mark at maiden level but switched to handicap company
at Yarmouth last July, she ran a race full of promise to finish third off a rating of 75.
However, she was then off the track until last month, when lining up off a 1.5kg lower mark and just being edged out towards the finish.
Corked should be a bit sharper for that outing and even with a subsequent 1kg rise, she still looks to have a race in her.
Spinnaka was a winner at Chepstow last time out for Luca Cumani and can follow up in the
Love Fairs Antique Fair 22 October Handicap at Brighton. She has been a thoroughly consistent performer, finishing no worse than fifh in nine starts so far, and can be relied upon to put up another bold show.
Dan Skelton thinks the world of Cause Toujours and he can get his life over timber off to the perfect start in the British Stallion Studs EBF National Hunt Novices’ Hurdle. – Press Association
                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  