
				                 


London – Indomeneo has proved a thoroughly consistent performer so far and can keep up the good work for Richard Fahey in the TBA Small Breeders’ Conditions Stakes at Leicester today.
The Piccolo colt faced a stiff test on his racecourse bow back in May, but the value of his second behind subsequent Coventry hero Rajasinghe is there for all to see. He has since won three of his six starts, finishing second twice as well, with his only disappointing run coming when sixth on his penultimate outing.
Indomeneo just was not on song that day for whatever reason, but bounced back with victory at Ripon last month and has clearly not come to the end of his purple patch. He is back up in class, but the conditions of the race favour him and it will be a surprise if Indomeneo is not in the shake-up.


Mohsen hit the bar at handicap level recently but is worth another shot in the Breeders Backing Racing EBF Dormouse Maiden Stakes. Marcus Tregoning’s runner has so far been unsuccessful in four maiden outings, although he did manage to finish second at Doncaster in August.
It therefore seemed to make sense to see him tackle a handicap off a mark of 73 at Chepstow, just finding one too good in the finish. Tregoning has decided to go back to a maiden and this is a weak enough event for Mohsen to be troubling the judge.



Sumbal was tackling the Champion Stakes this time two years ago and the fact he turns out in the Squirrel Handicap here ably demonstrates how far he has now fallen. Previously trained by Francis Grafard in France, Sumbal joined David Simcock at the back-end of last year and was limited to just two reasonable efforts in Group-race company before embarking on a winter break.



However, the five-year-old took a fair while to make his return, eventually pitching up in a conditions heat at Doncaster where he ran a fair race to finish a close-up third in what was a tactical four-runner affair. This event should be much more straightforward and Sumbal’s current merit rating of 106 makes him a pre y attractive proposition .


Tiercel can make a victorious return in Newcastle’s George F White Handicap after being o the track for over a year. He looked a useful tool for Roger Varian when winning twice last year, first on the Kempton all weather before following up at Windsor. – Press Association









                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  