
				                 An Alpha Security response officer was killed in cold blood on Friday night while on duty on Pretoria Road, Kempton Express reports.
Response officer Musa Gcaba (30) was shot for no apparent reason while on duty with his colleague, Petrus Pelele (28), who escaped unharmed.
The shooting took place at 8.30pm while the officers were parked in front of Goldwagen.
Alpha Security released CCTV footage of the incident, which was captured on Goldwagen’s CCTV cameras.
In the footage one can see two men walking along the street. As they reach the two security vehicles, they pull out guns and start shooting almost immediately. They then run away.
Gcaba was declared dead on the scene by ER24 paramedics.
Two bullets hit the bonnet of one car, while one went through the windscreen.
General manager of Alpha Security, Morne le Grange, condemned the senseless killing.
He said Gcaba, the father of three young children, aged six, three and two, had been working for the company since January.
“He was shot for no reason, nothing was taken, it was a senseless attack on two of our officers. Why murder a man with three children?
READ MORE: Police officer shot dead in Limpopo, state car stolen

In a post on the company’s Facebook page, Le Grange wrote:

 “A sad day has come over all the Alpha staff, family and friends of a response officer. We lost a young, vibrant and willing officer. A officer willing to fight against crime. He gave his life to the community of Kempton Park. Not only to feed his family but also to help and assist where he can in our constant battle against crime. You will be missed. You were part of us and our cause. RIP our brother in arms.”
“I am asking that anyone in the community that has any information on this brutal murder to contact me. Let’s not protect the people that did this,” he said.
Since the news of  Gcaba’s death broke on Saturday morning, many people came forward, offering to help his family.
“The management of Alpha Security will gladly accept any help or donations,” Le Grange said.
People can pay any donations into Alpha Security’s bank account: ABSA, cheque account 1199610445, using the reference “Musa Gcaba”.
Food or any other donations can be dropped off at Alpha Security’s office at 4a Cypress Street, Kempton Park.
“I will personally ensure that the family receives it,” Le Grange said.
Captain Jethro Mtshali, spokesperson for Kempton Park police, said the police have launched an investigation into the murder.
The two bullet holes in the bonnet of the security car. Picture: Alpha Security
READ MORE
Police officer shot dead in Limpopo, state car stolen

– Caxton News Service

For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter


                         	                   
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter
