
				                 The Proteas return to 50-over action on Sunday when they take on Bangladesh in the first of three ODIs in Kimberley.
It’s their first match in the format since the failed ICC Champions Trophy campaign in June, meaning there’s actually a lot to prove for South Africa.
Also read: Ton-up David Miller wants to buzz with the rest of the Proteas
New coach Ottis Gibson  has already said he hopes to check out a wide pool of players to start determining who’ll be ideal candidates for the 2019 World Cup.
But for now, it’s a pretty settled squad with a few established players with points to prove.
David Miller
The explosive left-hander appropriately plays his 100th ODI in Kimberley with question marks still hovering over his true ability.
Granted, he’s been far more successful over the past two years but the consistency is still lacking.
Injuries have played a part but the gaps between a dazzling 117 against Sri Lanka and a mature 75 against Pakistan in the Champions Trophy are just stretched too far out.
With the majority of the top order starting to move on in terms of age, this new era is supposed to be, well, Miller Time.
AB de Villiers
The fact that the brilliant stroke-maker wants to play Test cricket again suggests he’s hungry for international cricket again.
More importantly, De Villiers has given up the ODI captaincy, which theoretically should allow him a lot more freedom.
He actually has a superb record as captain but that also eventually weighed him down because he tried to do too much himself.
Now, as a senior player, it should be expected of him to dominate.
JP Duminy
Duminy’s situation is even more radical.
The left-hander decided to retire from Test cricket last month to just concentrate on white-ball cricket.
It should serve him well because he’s carved out a reputation of being more comfortable in the limited overs format.
Given that he’s also now free of the Test burden, he really should be expected to be more consistent.
Dane Paterson
Much like the current Test squad, the Cape Cobras quick is suddenly a potentially important member of this squad.
The absence of Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel and Chris Morris means there are precious little strike bowlers in the Proteas’ group.
It’s perfectly imaginable then that Paterson is going to be Kagiso Rabada’s partner-in-crime with the task of taking wickets.
He made a good impression against England in the T20 series there and will be looking to build on.
Temba Bavuma
The little right-hander has played only one ODI … and scored 113 in that game.
It would be only fair to give him a chance again.
Yet in the greater scheme of things, Bavuma might need an opportunity in this series to actually stave off the possibility of him being in a two-horse race with De Villiers for the No 4 spot in the Test side.
But that’s a headache for another time.
For now, Bavuma would just want to show his versatility … again.
                         	                  