My father always used to preach to us this particular saying when we were young: ‘early to bed and early to rise, makes you healthy, wealthy and wise.’ I might not have paid attention to it then, but now that can translate into one of the many secrets healthy people abide by.In an interview with Your Health, Dr Mwamvua Gugu from Lindi Regional Hospital emphasises that being healthy means decreasing the risk of developing different conditions including heart disease, stroke, cancers and injuries.But she also contradicts the fact that there are people who don’t fall sick at all. She says, “It is very rare to find such people nowadays because factors such as ‘junk food’ have become our lifestyle.”But Dr Gugu has witnessed people outside the hospital who have not visited a physician throughout the year. And here are the aspects one can learn from them on what needs to be done to stay healthy.Food choices matterDr Gugu says that by making healthier food choices, one can prevent or treat some conditions. These include heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. “A healthy diet can help you lose weight and lower your cholesterol,” she adds.Be fit and fabRoutine yourself to be active and exercising at least 30-60 minutes a day, five times a week. Any amount of exercise is better than none. Dr Gugu adds, “Exercise can help treat depression, high blood pressure and keeps diabetes and weight under control.”Power down  Getting eough sleep is good for keeping your heart healthy and if you don’t sleep enough you may be at the risk of getting cardiovascular disease, no matter what your age is, explains Dr Gugu. “Adults should at least sleep for 8 hours and the young ones should have longer sleep hours, about 10 to 12 hour per day,” Dr Gugu advises.Stay sun safeSun exposure is linked to skin cancer. This is the most common type of cancer in every place. It’s best to limit your time spent in the sun.Be sure to wear protective clothing and hats when you are outside. Use sunscreen year-round on exposed skin, like your face and hands, cautions Dr Gugu.Practice safe sexSafe sex is good for your emotional and physical health, advises Dr Gugu. Use protection, like condoms, to prevent sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).Don’t smoke or use tobaccoSmoking and tobacco use are harmful habits. They can cause heart diseaseincluding mouth, throat or lung cancer. They also are leading factors of emphysema and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The sooner you quit, the better.In addition, you should make time for full body health check-ups. Visit your doctor for regular checkups, including  a dentist and an eye doctor.djohn@tz.nationmedia.com