
				                 Sharks coach Robert du Preez said on Thursday that there is too much talk about ball-in-hand rugby in the South African game and winning rugby is the only type of play he’s interested in.
However, he did add that he’s pleased his team can do both as they head into the Currie Cup final against Western Province on Saturday.
“I think too much is made of all this ball-in-hand rugby, all I want is winning rugby. If that means we have to kick a lot then we will do that. We’re not a New Zealand team and we must play our South African brand of rugby.
“We have to play to our strengths, which is our pack of forwards. But with the backs we have, we’re fortunate that we can do both,” Du Preez said at Kings Park in Durban on Thursday, where the final will be played at 4pm on Saturday.
Du Preez was also confident that his flyhalf, 20-year-old Curwin Bosch, can control the game against a Western Province team that features the coach’s son, Robert jnr, in the pivot position.
Bosch also slotted an important drop goal late in the semi-final against the Blue Bulls last weekend, which had journalists asking Du Preez senior about drop-kicking flyhalves seeing as though the coach won a couple of Currie Cups playing scrumhalf to Naas Botha in the Northern Transvaal team.
“Curwin is a fantastic youngster who is playing some great rugby, so it will be a classic match-up between the flyhalves. Curwin is really intelligent and talented, he steps up on the big occasion.
“There aren’t many flyhalves around who can read the game situation like Naas did, and he was more intuitive. Defences weren’t as great back then as they are now, and we’ll have to get the build-up for Curwin to have the opportunity to attempt another drop goal,” Du Preez said.
The weather was closing in in Durban on Thursday and there will be rain before the final, with the only question being how long it will stick around. Western Province have a lot of pace in their side with speedsters Seabelo Senatla, Dillyn Leyds, Damian Willemse and Sikhumbuzo Notshe needing close watching.
“Rain will suit us, but we don’t mind either way. Western Province have a really talented squad and now that they’ve sorted out their defence properly, they’ve become a very good side. To be calm and composed is what we need and patience is also very important against them, both in attack and defence, as well as game-management,” Du Preez said.
READ MORE:
The Du Preez ‘family feud’: What they say about Robert

For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 
                         	                  