Sales is too scary for many small business owners, they think there is always a challenge into turning a “no” to “yes” in sales. But if you can figure out how to turn your sales fear into sales courage, you will change the game in your business. However, the gap between getting a prospect and turning that prospect into a customer can become shorter and shorter with only a few steps. As a sales person, you need to know who your Target Customers are. On this you need to know; who they listen to, where they hang out both online and offline, what the one problem or challenge is that keeps them up at night and most importantly, what their sense of humor is.  You are supposed to tighten up your Business Brand. Design your signature content and your business around your ideal customer. Use the lingo of your ideal customer. Mimic the style of the experts they pay attention to. Create Facebook posts based on what they like to see from businesses similar to yours. Create a brand image with attractive logos, tag lines, and clear messaging about who you are as a business, where you are going, and who you’d like to come with you. Note: A blog is a great place to make this step a reality; you can create, nurture, and control well into the future.  You also need to review your previous Sales Cycle. Ask yourself how long it took to go from prospect to sale with all of your products — even if it was one sale of one product or service. You need this as research for how to cut down on time — and extra steps — in the sales process.  Another step you should take is to give a boost to your Brand Awareness. Use what you’ve learned about the length of time and the steps necessary to close a sale. Did your ideal customers in those past sales convert faster than customers who were not in your ideal target audience? Most likely the answer is yes. Solution: Beef up your brand awareness. Consider using one social media platform more to draw your target customer to your website.  Make your ideal clients testify to your greatness. When you have strong brand awareness around your business, sales that normally take one year shrink to six months or less.Sometimes you can close up in 10 minutes with one phone call. The key is to get your ideal clients to say amazing things about you — and record them! Video testimonials are the Holy Grail, and they’re just as tough to get, too. Start out with written testimonials on trusted platforms such as LinkedIn or Yelp. The more of these you have, the shorter the steps in your sales conversion cycle and the more your sales funnel are filled with highly qualified prospects.  Putting these steps to work will confidently shorten the gap between meeting a prospect and closing the sale and hence ending up with a happy customer.   Email: lucbulili@yahoo.com or jullybulili@gmail.com