
				                 A 10-year-old child is missing after apparently getting caught in rip currents at a Melkbosstrand beach on Sunday afternoon, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said.
NSRI Melkbosstrand duty crew were activated at 4pm following reports of a drowning in progress at Melkbosstrand main beach, NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon said.
NSRI lifeguards, who were heading towards the beach at the time, responded and NSRI rescue swimmers and the sea rescue craft Discovery Rescue Runner was launched, he said.
The South African Police Service (SAPS), community medics, Western Cape government health EMS, Cape Town fire and rescue services and a fire dive unit, law enforcement, and Melkbosstrand neighbourhood watch also responded.
On arrival on the scene a search started for a 10-year-old child who had disappeared in the surf after appearing to be caught in rip currents, he said.
“NSRI lifeguards deployed to search using Malibu rescue boards, the Discovery rescue runner conducted sea searches, shore patrols were conducted, and NSRI rescue swimmers, NSRI lifeguards, and fire rescue divers conducted free-dive sweeping line searches.
“Despite an extensive search, sadly no sign of the child has been found and a police dive unit will continue with an ongoing search operation. Family are being assisted by trauma counsellors. It appears that the family, from Atlantis, had made use of a MyCiTi bus free ride offer to come to the beach,” Lambinon said.
“NSRI were not aware of a free ride service that had apparently been offered to the public but it had become increasingly noticeable as the day progressed that more people were arriving at the beach, particularly with municipal pools closed due to water restrictions,” NSRI Melkbosstrand station commander Rhine Barnes said.
Other sea rescue stations around the Cape Peninsula had also reported a noticeable unusual increased number of public on beaches on Sunday, and being out of lifeguard season, NSRI crews were called in to man sea rescue stations and conduct patrols after the noticeable increase in bathers became apparent.
– African News Agency (ANA)
                         	                  