
				                 


London – Buonarroti can seize advantage of a lenient handicap mark when he runs at Ayr today.
A lot of water has passed beneath the bridge since Aidan O’Brien thought him good enough to run in the Racing Post Trophy as a juvenile in 2013. Indeed, he has only won once since he was transferred to Declan Carroll’s stables in February 2015.
That victory came over 2600m at Ayr last July when he swamped a decent eld by nearly three lengths. Moreover, Buonarroti showed over 2400m at Haydock last month he is coming to hand nicely as the five-year-old gelding steps back up in distance for the William Hill-sponsored handicap.


The son of Galileo finished second on Merseyside, but nothing was finishing quicker as the line approached and he only went down by a length. That tends to suggest he is well worth a bash over this 3000m trip, while the distinct possibility of cut in the ground can only be seen as a positive.
Buonarroti won at Ayr last summer o a mark of 81 and returns to Scotland carrying 5kg less. And with the excellent Daniel Tudhope back at the helm, there are an awful lot of positives.
Rioja Day went close over course and distance just over a week ago and should be up to the job in division two of the Tennent’s Handicap. The seven-year-old gelding can be hard to pin down, but he was on a going day last time when he stayed on with a touch of vigour to get to within 1.50 lengths of Cli Bay.



Jim Goldie’s inmate knows the Ayr terrain better than most this will be his 22nd Flat start at the track and again has the assistance of capable 3kg claimer Sean Mooney.
Rioja Day is not too badly treated if his victory at Hamilton in August is factored into the equation and he also has winning form when the mud is flying.
Star of the show at Chelmsford’s evening meeting should be Boynton. Godolphin’s colt will not find the 1800m conditions stakes a cakewalk as he has been sidelined since last July. But he won the Superlative Stakes at Newmarket and then finished second in the Vintage Stakes at Goodwood on his final outing.


That form is extremely strong and Boynton should get the job done. – Press Association






                                                         Would you like to place a bet on the horses? Click here to get started in 3 easy steps.
                         	                  