
				                 The Proteas duly achieved a whitewash in the ODI series against Bangladesh with a comprehensive all-round performance in East London.
Captain Faf du Plessis called for ruthlessness from his troops and he certainly got it given the victory margin of 200 runs.
South Africa reached a massive 369/6 in their 50 overs, comfortably the highest international total at Buffalo Park as well as their highest against the Tigers before bowling them out for 169.
Du Plessis was the mainstay of the effort, stroking his way to a brilliant, unbeaten 91 off just 67 deliveries.
However, he was more of a talking point than just for his innings.
The 33-year-old had to leave the field in the 40th over of the South Africa innings after completing a second run.
He immediately fell onto the ground as physiotherapist Brandon Jackson ran onto the field for running repairs.
It didn’t matter much as Du Plessis had to retire hurt and actually had to be piggybacked for the last couple of steps.
Team management subsequently confirmed he’d suffered from an acute lower back strain and won’t be available for the upcoming T20 series starting next week .
Prior to that, he shared an excellent third wicket partnership of 151 with Aiden Markram, who was handed a debut.
Markram, who impressed all and sundry in the Test series, was surprisingly picked at No 4 in the batting order but it hardly mattered as he struck a fine 64 off just 60.
Earlier, Quinton de Kock (73) and new opening partner Temba Bavuma (48) put on 119 for the first wicket.
Farhaan Behardien (33*) and Kagiso Rabada (23*) applied the finishing touches.
The inexperienced Proteas bowling attack acquitted themselves well.
Dane Paterson, who had previously struggled in this series, found confidence with a good spell of 3/44.
The leg-spinning wile of Imran Tahir (2/27) was also effective and another debutant, Wiaan Mulder (1/32), looked a fine prospect.
Despite the excellence of Shakib Al-Hasan, who made 63, Bangladesh were also undone by the cheap wickets gifted to Markram (2/18).
                         	                  