
				                 The African Nationa Congress (ANC) in the Greater Johannesburg Region on Tuesday, expelled its Ward 92 councillor following allegations of the illegal sale of land belonging to the municipality in Midrand.
This comes after the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks), together with the City’s Group Forensic and Investigation Service (GFIS) Department, arrested the ANC councillor from the Kaalfontein, Midrand area, for the illegal sale of two City-owned property stands.
The stands were sold for a total of R210,000.
A City employee, working at the social development department in Region A, was also arrested. It is alleged that the councillor and the employee are involved in a romantic relationship.
City investigators allege that monies from the illicit transaction were paid into the employee’s bank account, who then transferred the money to the ANC councillor.
It is alleged that the ANC councillor sold the first stand to his first victim for R80,000 between December 2016 and January 2017.
After being allocated a stand in Kaalfontein, the victim started building on the property and was stopped by residents from the area who indicated that the site was earmarked for a communal soccer field.
The second victim was also allegedly sold a stand next to the first victim for R130,000 illegally. The complainant became aware of the ANC councilor’s fraudulent conduct when she attempted to lawfully sell the stand, and with the help of an attorney they managed to expose the councilor.
ANC Joburg spokesperson, Jolidee Matongo, said in a statement that the councilor was given an opportunity to present his case at the ANC integrity committee meeting, and the committee found that his actions were “morally and ethically unacceptable”.
“The ANC’s Integrity Committee resolved that the regional executive committee should immediately recall [the] councilor from his position as an ANC councilor in ward 92.  The ANC Greater Johannesburg Region has thus taken a decision to remove him as a councilor with immediate effect,” Matongo said.
Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba appealed to the community to assist the City in exposing such corrupt activities.
“It is not the first time that the illegal sale of stands is brought to my attention. I have indeed requested the City’s Group Forensic and Investigation Service (GFIS) Department to investigate the matter,” Mashaba said.
“I’m appealing to anyone who might have further information on the illegal sale of stands and RDP houses to please come forward. The information will assist our law enforcement agencies as they continue to investigate these cases throughout the City.”
Both the suspects will appear in the Johannesburg Commercial Crimes Court on Wednesday where they will be charged with fraud and corruption.
                         	                  